This kit is complete and helpful to the provider who needs to use it.  See previous comments.  None at this time.  I agree with others that an electronic survey may be too cumbersome or scare some of the older generation away from offering feedback.  Just to put in additional coupons and ask for referrals and ask them to challenge their family and friends to try the product to lose weight and stay healthy.  See previous comments  I really like the packaging. Is it saying that one drink is equal to a half of bagel?  Please see previous comments.  Please see previous comments.  I think the materials are succinct and self explanatory. I agree with Lisa Jasper, RN, DNP, MSN, FNP, MBA that coupons are always helpful.  I think a text message reminders to drink you Glucerna each day! A website for patients to sign up for recipes and diet ideas as well as text message.  See previous question in this section. No new comments :)  See previous comments--nothing further.  I think it is adequate and simple enough that people would utilize all the materials  Same as previous 

Completely agree with Avram. Carolyn works tirelessly with this patient population and does an excellent job communicating with their families and helping to get follow-up arranged seamlessly. We try and support as much as we can from a GI perspective with getting patients in for an evaluation and troubleshooting tube issues when they arise in quick manor to match the level of care that Carolyn and Avram provide. Thankfully Carolyn Taylor has lots of experience in this area and is the main reason (from the neurology side) our Duopa program runs so smoothly. Lack of experience with these tubes (or tubes in general) and also the lack of bandwidth to help accommodate these patients when issues arise. Thankfully AbbVie and the nurse educators have been incredibly supportive and have been present at my clinic visits and during tube placement/exchanges to help ensure optimal troubleshooting and functioning of the tube itself. It gives me piece of mind that I have solid support backing my clinical practice, but also instills in me a sense of personal confidence when placing and troubleshooting this technology. I have been more inclined to refer other colleagues to start placing these tubes as well because of this and have started to partner with some of our surgery colleagues (Dr. Ezra Teitelbaum) and our Radiology Colleagues (Heather Molina PA-C) as well who also help with these tube placements. @all When you speak with colleagues/peers who are not involved in Duopa Treatment Teams, what have you heard about why they have not formed or joined a team? Communication from the Neurology to Procedural side is key, but thankfully we have a great and efficient team!  Good surgical support is the key.  With it, Duopa is no more complicated than any other therapy.  Hi Carolyn.  This question is to Carolyn and others, does your Duopa team function any differently from other groups within your practice?  If so, how? I would say reasons for our success are 1) good communication between team members and 2) clear understanding of everyone's role in the Duopa start process. @all When you speak with colleagues/peers who are not involved in Duopa Treatment Teams, what have you heard about why they have not formed or joined a team?  Thankfully Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC has lots of experience in this area and is the main reason (from the neurology side) our Duopa program runs so smoothly.  From a surgical perspective providers may be concerned that their clinic may turn in to a tube management depot which is not the most rewarding.  However, In my experience, I find tube complications are fairly uncommon and those that do occur often the nurses can trouble shoot.  Also, I have EGD block time which is uncommon for most surgeons. This makes dealing with replacements and new implantation easier. @all When you speak with colleagues/peers who are not involved in Duopa Treatment Teams, what have you heard about why they have not formed or joined a team? Dayanna Ocegueda contributes most to the success from a neurology standpoint. We also have an excellent GI team who are extremely responsive. Often times tubes are replaced without neurology ever knowing there was an issue.  The communication between our neurology department, GI and DuoConnect contributes most to the success. Our nurse case manager is very good at communicating what is needed to speed up the process or when the patient is ready for the next step.  Transparency in Commuication, keep a 'llistening ear' for helping patients and keeping execution of logistics clear. 
This is a team approach game we play. so far it is working. I believe the critical piece is a willing service in IR wanting to partner with Movement disorder team in helping these patients.  Although all 3 disciplines (neurology, surgery, interventional radiology) work hand-in-hand, I like the fact that we have kept our duties quite compartmentalized.  My nurse practitioners and I are more than happy to deal with any and all problems that deal with the tube itself.  We are comfortable either fixing/replacing them ourselves, or directing them to interventional radiology as needed.  If a patient has a question about the medication itself, we immediately refer them to our excellent team of neurologists who (thankfully!) deal with all the medication adjustments and counseling.  I would say reasons for our success are 1) good communication between team members and 2) clear understanding of everyone's role in the Duopa start process.  The team that is most comparable to the Duopa team is the DBS team. There are many similarities in the workflow. The major difference is that there are more hurdles (neuropsych testing, sinemet study) for patients to be considered a candidate for DBS, so our DBS team meets monthly to review those cases. Otherwise we function and communicate similarly for Duopa and DBS referrals. Hi Carolyn.  This question is to Carolyn and others, does your Duopa team function any differently from other groups within your practice?  If so, how? I think we have our defined roles, and we are keeping to the particular criteria for patient candidacy. From the neurology perspective we are trying to only send qualified patients with advanced PD to the GI specialist for consultation. We do not want to refer patients unnecessarily to GI  Initially the Nurse Educator (Tony D) was an important reason we got the program running with him being the communicator between all different parties. Once we had all players identified Dayanna Ocegueda has taken over that role of 'mobilizer' and has the entire team on her speed dial. So communication remains the most important part of the process and reason for a smooth workflow. Our GI collaborator and his PAs has been tremendous. If patients are concerned about their stoma they send pictures to GI directly and get immediate responses.  My colleagues within our Movement Disorder group usually refer to Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and me because we also evaluate patients for other therapies such as DBS. That way patients get whatever is the most appropriate therapy. 
I am not sure why other Movement Disorder groups would not form 'teams'. Perhaps because they are more interested in DBS for fluctuators? @all When you speak with colleagues/peers who are not involved in Duopa Treatment Teams, what have you heard about why they have not formed or joined a team?
Didn't know this was available either and would be better if these different resources were compiled into one Tube specific resource that is distributed by the Proceduralist  Didn't know this resource was available. Would prefer to use Abbvie Standard language as we have been using our own standard handouts for tube care in general in my practice. Would be helpful so this can be re-enforced across both GI and Neurology clinics as points of patient contact. Caitlin Houghton Harold Boutte, Jr do you use this resource to provide your patients with post procedure information or is there another specific resource you prefer? Caitlin Houghton, MD Harold Boutte, Jr, MD do you use this resource to provide your patients with post procedure information or is there another specific resource you prefer?  You would need to ask our surgeon.  we have not used the resource at NW  I do use this post procedure information.  It is given to them in a packet of information. The part that I do not like and tell them to ignore is the moving the tube portion.  I do not want them to move the tube.  I feel it puts them at more risk for the stomach to fall away from the abdominal wall.  I do make sure they know what to do if the tube is sliding in and out and not secured tightly to the skin. Then I tell them to unclasp, pull out til there is resistance, then secure the clasp close to the skin.  I have a problem with the move the tube daily information seen throughout these informational packets.  I get the ideal is preventing the bumper from imbedding into the tissue but I think the risk of the stomach falling away from the abdominal wall is much more concerning and I don't think patients need to worry about moving the tube.  I would prefer that the information discuss that the tube should not slide and the clasp should be close to the skin.  If they see the tube sliding then give instructions on how to unclamp and pull until resistance...  I have not seen this resource. This would be a good resource for neurology RNs/MAs to have for when patients call our office regarding their tubing.  I am not sure if patients receive this after procedure, but it would be a good guide for them to follow.  All our patients get this information.  After the procedure is completed.  I haven't seen this resource before, but I know NM's GI team has a similar, internal document they developed for Duopa patients.  This is fantastic and did not know like others that this existed. These resources need to be given either by the home nurse or after the procedure. For neurology, its good for us to have this as well incase discussions arise  Richard A Pierce, MD, PhD is this a piece that is used for your patients for post procedure information, or is there something specific to your institution that is typically used? You would need to ask our surgeon. Not sure if our GI team uses this or have their own handouts 