I recommend products I have tried but also recommend products with an evidence based theory as an endorsement.  I've tried the mocha Glucerna and really like it so I mention that to patients when recommending Glucerna.  Yes! If I have tried and liked a product and knows it works well I definitely want to share it with others.  I tend to go into detail around the experience of the product and the value to me.  Yes, I recommend products I know, have tried or used when it would be of benefit to the patient. In addition, I do rely on evidence-based research to back the use of a product (or Med etc) and how it works when educating patients.  I think any evidence-based research that can be made available would enhance providers' understanding and recommendations for a product @all would information provided with the product be adequate for education or would you like to see or require additional studies or evidence along with the products prior to suggesting it to patients? Glucerna is something I provide samples of to my diabetics so they try it before investing in them. Many of my patients live on a fixed income so cost is an issue and being able to try first is crucial.  I also discuss how it can be a meal on the go substitute or they can just se half as a snack Answer: Yes.  Comment: Glucerna is something I provide samples of to my diabetics so they try it before investing in them. Many of my patients live on a fixed income so cost is an issue and being able to try first is crucial. In the realm of nutrition, I tend to recommend tips and tricks either I or someone I know have tried and would recommend. However, I have no problem recommending something I have not tried if there is good science behind it.  If a clinician is not familiar with the science behind the product, it would be good to include the studies that are currently available. Of course, this would not need to be included in the patient portion. 

Other areas that might be of interest for future studies: use in prediabetes and prevention of DM2, effect on GI symptoms/IBS. @all would information provided with the product be adequate for education or would you like to see or require additional studies or evidence along with the products prior to suggesting it to patients? Definetely  @all would information provided with the product be adequate for education or would you like to see or require additional studies or evidence along with the products prior to suggesting it to patients?  Thanks so much for your reply! If a clinician is not familiar with the science behind the product, it would be good to include the studies that are currently available. Of course, this would not need to be included in the patient portion. 

Other areas that might be of interest for future studies: use in prediabetes and prevention of DM2, effect on GI symptoms/IBS. Thanks so much Holly :) I think any evidence-based research that can be made available would enhance providers' understanding and recommendations for a product That's great Diane Hart, MA, BA, ADN . It's great when we can recommend a product that tastes great. Answer: Yes.  Comment: I've tried the mocha Glucerna and really like it so I mention that to patients when recommending Glucerna.

Exercises using a stationary bike, example of portion review using the plate method.  Extra coupons would help maintain sustainability.  I like the exercise idea, and also maybe a brief overview of the basics of diabetes and healthy eating such as appropriate carbohydrate amounts for snacks/meals.  Extra coupons and maybe a card with exercises on it to follow after drinking a supplement.  Well, any type of exercises to encourage increasing their activity will help with weight lose. Ex. Exercises that can be done in a chair, walking for 15 minutes or a floor exercise. Lisa Jasper can you please expand on what you mean by exercises? I like Maria Lena Walls, NP idea of daily recommended protein amounts so patients can see if/when they are deficient and Ashlyn Smith, PA idea of including the protein calculator tool. I couldn't find either on the website, so perhaps include them there and direct the patients on where to find them.  I think calorie controlled, a lot of people are looking for healthy low carb options, the food should not have to require refrigeration.  web site sign up, for reminders and also could text coupons for the patient as they document (via development of an app similar to MyFitnessPal) their progress, ie, drinking the glucerna daily (via documentation in the app). they can receive rewards, i.e., coupons.  The components that are currently there, the page to take to the clinician from my response to the last question, and the protein calculator tool Abbott has.  Variety of flavors, other food protein option ideas, daily recommended protein amounts  Lisa Jasper, RN, DNP, MSN, FNP, MBA can you please expand on what you mean by exercises? Extra coupons and maybe a card with exercises on it to follow after drinking a supplement. Thanks so much for clarifying. Much appreciated :) Well, any type of exercises to encourage increasing their activity will help with weight lose. Ex. Exercises that can be done in a chair, walking for 15 minutes or a floor exercise.

people who need to have meals on the go.  People who have motivation to try new things.  People who have some potential for malnutrition.  If they live with a supportive partner it would increase the chance they would try the kit.  Patients who are looking for meal replacements or low carb/high protein snack options.  BMI over 28
Obese
Diabetes
Pre diabetics
Eating disorders
Limited mobility
Patients that trust their healthcare provider
Healthcare Providers
People who work out daily  Patients who are busy and looking for ways to make their lives simpler. 
Patients who know they need to make healthy changes, but may not have the motivation or health literacy to understand how. 
Patients who have an unmet dietary protein intake for various reasons  Many of the patients I see are just like me, very busy!  We are working, trying to eat healthy and still maintain our busy schedules. Many are talking about a strong desire to lose weight or eat healthier a kit that focuses on these things and for specific populations like diabetics, those individuals with high cholesterol, or those looking to do the intermittent fasting which has been shown to have many benefits. The kit would be wonderful as it could help people launch a new healthier lifestyle that is easily accessible and cost effective.  Patients who are motivated to change, have hit barriers and are frustrated, patients who need more direction, patients who may not want to do a complete weight loss "program" but are looking for simple changes.  I like your point about where people live or who they live with. In addition to the great suggestions @all have mentioned below, we can also think about those whose living or working situations interfere with their attempts at lifestyle changes: those with children or partners who do not follow their same meal plan, thus the family is faced with making 2 versions of all meals; parents who are on the go either with young kiddos or teens with extracurriculars; professionals with a long commute or busy work day/working through lunch. These psychosocial factors leave people looking for quick, easy, prepared options to help them stay on track. @all Thank you so much for your responses to this questions. After thinking about all of your responses to the questions, are there any additional characteristics that might influence a patient to utilize a kit and benefit from what it provides? Perhaps thinking about people of all ages who may benefit from the kit.... would where they live or who they live with (for example), influence their use of the kit? People who are busy, motivated, patients wanting to better control their chronic diseases, post hospitalization, people who lose their hunger or living alone and not wanting to cook  @all Thank you so much for your responses to this questions. After thinking about all of your responses to the questions, are there any additional characteristics that might influence a patient to utilize a kit and benefit from what it provides? Perhaps thinking about people of all ages who may benefit from the kit.... would where they live or who they live with (for example), influence their use of the kit?  Thank you so much for your thoughtful response Ashlyn! I like your point about where people live or who they live with. In addition to the great suggestions @all have mentioned below, we can also think about those whose living or working situations interfere with their attempts at lifestyle changes: those with children or partners who do not follow their same meal plan, thus the family is faced with making 2 versions of all meals; parents who are on the go either with young kiddos or teens with extracurriculars; professionals with a long commute or busy work day/working through lunch. These psychosocial factors leave people looking for quick, easy, prepared options to help them stay on track.

I would listen to another's opinion but would like to try the kit and form my own opinion.  It just depends on what their opinion is and what they are basing it on.  If they have good reasons/proof then I might change my mind.  Yes, It will all depend on how knowledgeable I thought the healthcare professional is regarding the product.  A lot of my decisions are based on data and outcomes.  I agree with Maria Lena Walls, NP it depends on the person and their experience and like Ashlyn Smith, PA I love to hear other providers' ideas for use and tips for success.  I respect the opinions of my peers and I appreciate/value their input. I like to compare it to my own.  Another clinician's use or lack of use would not sway me directly, but I would love to hear tips of how clinicians are using them successfully.  Depends on the person and their experience 

These numbers are fairly accurate, however we have seen steady improvement thanks to the hard work of Carolyn Taylor and Avram Fraint to get these patients through the pipeline.  Dayanna Ocegueda Thank you for this feedback.  We are really interested in learning more about this communication.  Can you expand more on your communication with the DuoConnect nurse case manager?  How often do you speak with her/him?  Do you setup specific time to talk with them?  Any advice on how you have adjusted to make this communication better? I think those numbers are pretty low. It can all be brought up with the proper training. I worked closely with the DuoConnect nurse case manager to make sure all the pivotal information needed was in the notes I was submitting. I have a check list with the criteria needed for approval. Prior to submitting any forms I go through the notes to make sure everything needed is documented if not Leonard Verhagen Jessica Karl will addend the notes as necessary. I think some providers must enroll patients at the patients request but do not really think they are good candidates.  I am surprised the number is so low. From my end, I always try to make sure that my note includes any information the insurance company may need to proceed with Duopa.  The time to procedure is about right.  I tend to book case about 4 weeks out.  
The 50% get the tube I think is a bit low.  Might be nice to know where they fall out.  I think this makes sense. Our center has prescribed Duopa so much that we have overcome the chart deficiencies but I recall early on that we would have to resubmit our enrollment forms/chart notes because of this. Dayanna (medical assistant/coordinator) has also helped with this process immensely. She makes sure prior to submission that everything is in place. Dayanna Ocegueda I am sure you have more to comment!  I do not think it requires extra work just specific wording. In DBS there is also specific information insurance companies look at to approve the therapy. @all Great insights into your process and workflow for submitting Duopa patient enrollment forms.  My question to all on the Neurologist side: Does Duopa require extra work for chart notes as compared to other advanced therapies after a prescription is submitted? I think those numbers are pretty low. It can all be brought up with the proper training. I worked closely with the DuoConnect nurse case manager to make sure all the pivotal information needed was in the notes I was submitting. I have a check list with the criteria needed for approval. Prior to submitting any forms I go through the notes to make sure everything needed is documented if not Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C will addend the notes as necessary.  We talk at least once a week by phone, but she is able to send me e-mails now on an as needed basis which makes things run much smoother. Dayanna Ocegueda Thank you for this feedback.  We are really interested in learning more about this communication.  Can you expand more on your communication with the DuoConnect nurse case manager?  How often do you speak with her/him?  Do you setup specific time to talk with them?  Any advice on how you have adjusted to make this communication better? Very likely correct, but this is something that can be rectified by having the 'Facilitator' advocate followup with the involved Movement Disorder/Parkinson's Clinic.  I think that 50% of patients never starting to open seems quite high based on our experience here at Vanderbilt.  Again, I never encounter those patients who might see one of our movement disorder neurologists and start the process, but then halt it before seeing me for their tube placement consult.  I would say that pretty much 100% of patients that actually get the tube at least start the therapy.  I would estimate that I have removed about 10% of the tubes that I have put in for various reasons, including patient dissatisfaction with either the tube itself or just lack of Duopa efficacy.  The average time to PEG-J procedure/% of patients who do not start Duopa is not surprising to me based on my own experiences.

Regarding completeness of chart notes, I would guess this is less common at academic centers where we (mostly) have adequate staffing and resources to help with the insurance approval process. My guess is you are more likely to see incomplete documentation in community based practices where there may not be as much support staff or familiarity with prescribing specialty medications. I would also guess that practices that have an NP/PA involved in the Duopa prescribing process are more likely to submit complete documentation.  That number is quite low. I don't know if the explanation of the procedure to patients and family affects the notes but the key is making sure there is good communication between proceduralist and MDS, making sure all detailed factors are written based on PD criteria for Duopa. Patients need to understand that the criteria for Duopa are affecting their QOL and we need to send patients to the proceduralists only when the patient is comfortable moving forward.  @all Great insights into your process and workflow for submitting Duopa patient enrollment forms.  My question to all on the Neurologist side: Does Duopa require extra work for chart notes as compared to other advanced therapies after a prescription is submitted?  The 33% would be something you can work on. Perhaps you can provide especially new centers with a 'script' they can convert into a EMR smartphrase forcing them to touch upon all necessary points in their documentation.  This is true. Dayanna Ocegueda keeps me in line and makes sure the notes are complete! I think those numbers are pretty low. It can all be brought up with the proper training. I worked closely with the DuoConnect nurse case manager to make sure all the pivotal information needed was in the notes I was submitting. I have a check list with the criteria needed for approval. Prior to submitting any forms I go through the notes to make sure everything needed is documented if not Leonard Verhagen Jessica Karl will addend the notes as necessary. agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C . It is perhaps an idea to provide newer sites with examples of the exact wording needed to get approval so that newer sites don't get delayed or rejected. Sites could make that into smart phrases so the documentation is even easier. You can include in such examples also a smart phrase that would help remind sites to check labs from time to time. @all Great insights into your process and workflow for submitting Duopa patient enrollment forms.  My question to all on the Neurologist side: Does Duopa require extra work for chart notes as compared to other advanced therapies after a prescription is submitted?

The instructions were simple and clear.  I think that the kick-off was important to A. understand the expectation and use of the platform and B. adds a personal touch to put some faces to the names in the group.  It was helpful to walk through the functionalities of the platform.  The slides presented in the virtual meeting represented exactly what would be discussed and how to navigate the page.  I appreciated the transparency of how the system operates and also the expectations being set on how to utilize the platform in a way that would be helpful for us as providers and giving appropriate feedback and insight through the threads.  I thought the 1-hour kickoff was sufficient in providing background for the platform and what was expected of the participants. It was also nice to see everyone virtually!  Very helpful to get oriented.  He has but it is still much harder to discuss in this format versus in person or virtually real-time.  Should have been, yes the website was helpful but I am a terrible typist and it is much easier to discuss, real-time. Answer: Yes.  Comment: He has but it is still much harder to discuss in this format versus in person or virtually real-time.

Typically 30-40% due to fear from managing the tube itself or the pump technology  I would estimate 10-20%,  Hello all.  Thank you for your comments on this topic.  Is there anything that you think could or would improve this percentage?  I would defer to Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC on this, but I am surprised to see her estimate of about 40%. I would have guessed this to be lower.  Probably around 20% of patients.  Less than 20%, but those are the patient's that are typically very anxious.  I think around 20%.  Consistently prevails !  I'll have to defer to Tom Davis on this one.  I'm pretty sure that practically ALL the patients that see us in Gen Surg clinic eventually go on to get there PEG-J tube placed.  The only one I can think of who didn't was a recent patient who had previously had a Gastric Bypass, and would have this required a modified (laparoscopic) placement of her tube.  Since this would represent a significantly more invasive procedure, I had her go through a Duopa trial with the nasojejunal tube first.  The patient felt that she didn't get much benefit from the medication, so she decided not to proceed with permanent tube placement.  I can't think of any other patients that I've seen who have not ultimately gotten the PEG-J placed.  Probably about 40%  10-15 %. We have asked patients to only move forward and enroll once they are confident in the idea of the PEG-J tube and Duopa therapy which I think keeps this % typically lower. Our surgeon does a great job of instilling confidence in patients based on outcomes from prior cases. I wish patients would be able to only enroll and start the auth process only after they see both the surgeon and neurologist. Having the neurologist enroll them first before seeing the proceduralist will affect this number.  I think less than 20% is a reasonable estimate.
With Covid it may have been higher than usual, as patients like to stay away form the hospital.
To answer Brad Durbin ways to bring that down could be as Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. suggested, and prescribe only after Neuro and GI have both seen and reassured the patient. I usually don't do that because by the time they come and see me for interventional therapies they want something done and I don't want to delay the process. But it may be a good practice when one discovers trepidation on the patien's side. 

30-60  I would say it is usually in the 30 day range.  I believe they are often evaluated by surgery prior to med approval.  Our surgeon would know better. None of our patients have ever complained about the wait.  The average time it takes between the initial consultation with me until the PEG-J is placed is (at best) usually 30-60 days. This seems to vary considerably based on insurance and also how aggressive the patient is about proceeding.  I would agree with Leo, it is likely 1-2 months from signing the script to the PEG-J procedure. The usual delay is the patient having second thoughts.  Douglas Varian I do think it has sped up, likely because we are familiar (with the help of Dayanna Ocegueda) with what insurance companies require so we write what is required in our notes initially. In the past we would often times have to update our notes and resubmit which would prolong the process. Hi Jessica &amp; others - Has the time frame of clearance sped up over the years of prescribing Duopa?  If so, any particular reason you think? It depends. Sometimes it can be as quick as 6 weeks depending on the availability of the GI doctors and how quick we can get through the insurance verification process. Or it can take up to 2 months or more if we are having difficulty with  patient's having second thoughts or with facilities approving the drug for patients.  4 to 6 weeks. This includes getting a Interventional Radiology Clinic consultation and then setting up the procedure with anesthesia in the IR lab. There is potential if clinically necessary to ' truncate' this time.  It appears that the time frame is pretty consistent in most of the practices. ~ 4-8 weeks. Good to know that we are in the middle.  Thanks Tom Davis, that probably sounds about right.  We usually try to get the patients in an seen by one of our Clinic NPs as soon as we are made aware of the patient's Duopa eligibility and/or decision to proceed with the medication.  That way we can get them scheduled for the OR as quickly as possible.  There can often be a 2-4 week time frame from their clinic visit to their procedure in the OR, depending on my operative availability. I would say it is usually in the 30 day range.  I believe they are often evaluated by surgery prior to med approval.  Our surgeon would know better. None of our patients have ever complained about the wait. If the patient is ready to proceed with the PEG-J procedure, then typically 30-45 days. Pt readiness to proceed with Duopa often leads to delays in scheduling the GI consult and/or the PEG-J procedure, and in this case I have had some patients wait 6 months to a year before proceeding with Duopa (after already being cleared to ship)  14 days to indefinite....I agree with all of you on this question. A few patients have been quite motivated and get into our amazing surgeon's Caitlin Houghton, MD office, and are ready to go with a scheduled procedure date just over 2 weeks.  We have patients only sign for clearance of the Duopa script only if there is a reasonable timeline and motivation to have it done, and that has allowed most of our patients to have the procedure done in a month. However, there is a range from 30 days to 60 days based on insurance authorizing the procedure and second thoughts about the procedure from patients that delay this timetable. We have however many patients that were so motivated and decided to hold off for a time period, and have come back to it a year later.  Hi Jessica &amp; others - Has the time frame of clearance sped up over the years of prescribing Duopa?  If so, any particular reason you think? I would agree with Leo, it is likely 1-2 months from signing the script to the PEG-J procedure. The usual delay is the patient having second thoughts. Not sure what 'clearance of a Duopa script means', but assume it is when we sent out the script; from there until PEG-J it is probably 2 months. That is IF I did not forget to write in the chart what different medications have been tried in the past, or other details. 

The largest issue has been the ability to schedule "elective" admission for tube placement. I have been able to get around this since I admit them post-procedure for observation which is allowed and that has been able to keep our work-flow relatively steady without too much obstruction, but patient's fears regarding hospitalization play a part in this as well.  This is very interesting. In my experience, patient who opt for DBS over Duopa are much more likely to go ahead with surgery now rather than wait until the pandemic is over.  I think the DBS patients are generally less concerned about risk. It has not changed the way I talk to patients.  I think elective surgery is  no more risky than going to the grocery store.  I have not changed the way I talk to patients about the procedures, but I do warn them that the typical timeline is likely to be prolonged during the pandemic.  I agree with the previous comments and have not changed my practices.  I do assure people who may be hesitant that precautions are in place.  Every patient is covid tested prior to procedures.  I haven't changed my view of elective procedures but certain patients have voiced their concern and preference to wait until the pandemic is over/calmed down.  I think it just depends on the patient and what they are comfortable with.  We have a mandate with the second bad phase of the virus, to not schedule elective procedures that could potentially lead to a hosptial observation. So far we have not had any patients with the Duopa Tube placement who may have needed immediate post procedure hospitalization. 

Yes we do counsel them regarding the hospital COVID-19 POLICIES and they also have to get a COVID-19 PCR test within 72 hours of the procedure, that needs to be resulted &lt;72 hours. Just like if you are trying to hop on a plane to go to Hawaii from the northwest or the west coast!  Not really... Patients are required to undergo preoperative COVID-19 testing 72 hours before the procedure, and they are then asked to quarantine during the intervening days between the test and the procedure.  I now ask my patients on the morning of any operation or procedure whether they have been in contact with a COVID-19 patient or if they have had any symptoms over the past few days.  Fortunately, the rate of nosocomial spread seems to be virtually nil, so I try to assure patients that the chances of them actually getting Covid from a brief outpatient visit to the hospital is quite low.  I haven't changed my view of elective procedures, I would be interested to hear what Harold Boutte, Jr, MD 's view is. 

I have had several patients interested in Duopa who have suggested delaying the PEG-J to a later date, sometimes for fear about the pandemic, and sometimes for personal reasons. I have counseled these patients that in the past, elective procedures have been cancelled or delayed at NM, so this should be taken into consideration as a potential cause for delays in the future, even when the patient decides they are ready.  Not much has changed as patients can get COVID testing prior to surgery. I have asked patients to be patient in the process as the guidelines are ever changing with elective procedures. There are those that we recommend get surgery done sooner based on their medical condition, however others we have been guiding them to think about after the vaccinations are more readily available if they are nervous about the pandemic.  There are patients who prefer not to have the procedure done at this time because of the pandemic. I think that is reasonable. Of course we tell them that Rush has all kinds of safety measures in place, including COVID testing. From a provider perspective I have not changed how I discuss these procedures 

interacting through both email and EPIC when issues are occurring. Carolyn Taylor is incredibly responsive!  The neurologists and NP see each other frequently in clinic.  We communicate with the surgical team through the electronic medical record.  Patients are often referred to my by other movement disorders neurologists in our practice. After I evaluate them I then forward their name to Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC via EPIC and she then takes care of insurance approval, consultation with the proceduralist, and titration visit. She and I are in touch frequently during the initial phases of Duopa initiation.  Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. Once a patient is referred to my clinic for Tube placement and deemed a good candidate, our nurses really do all the work behind the scenes to get them scheduled. They talk on email, test or phone.  About once a year we all try to go out to dinner together to have a more in depth conversation about how things are going and discuss any improvements that need to be made,  Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD or myself will see a patient that is either in our practice already or referred by another movement disorder neurologist in our group. We will then involve Dayanna Ocegueda who will start the process of submitting for insurance approval.  We interact through epic or verbally. The occur intermittently, not at regular times. Leonard Verhagen or myself will see a patient that is either in our practice already or referred by another movement disorder neurologist in our group. We will then involve Dayanna Ocegueda who will start the process of submitting for insurance approval. We usually interact through Epic. Prior to the PEG J procedure we are notified.  The interaction between the IR team, Our Clinic Team and the Movement disorder Nursing team and support team is excellent. our goal is simple: to provide efficient care that is patient focused in an expeditious fashion. This has worked so far. 
The Movement disorder team really likes my Clinic Facilitator.  Unless Tom Davis is holding out on me, we have not had any group meetings since the program started.  I agree with him that we largely communicate via the electronic medical record, and again, most of that initial contact is done amongst the nurse practitioners in neurology, surgery, and interventional radiology.  Every now and then, if there is an extenuating circumstance, I will either call my interventional radiologist or Tom Davis directly to discuss a particular patient.  Our team interacts through email/Epic. We generally have several touchpoints throughout the Duopa process 1) when a patient is referred, 2) when the Duopa script is approved and pt is ready to schedule the GI consult, 3) when the PEG-J procedure/Duopa titration is scheduled, 4) after the titration  my answer is consistent with Caitlin Houghton, MD. We do not meet that often as our staff does the majority of communication. I think once or twice a year is sufficient but if there are issues with patient selection, changes in procedure methods or tubing, then meeting even more frequent is appropriate.  The critical team members in neurology are in daily contact about all clinical issues. Once a patient of mine shows solid interest in Duopa, I give them detailed information, hand out brochures, connect them with a patient if they like and ask them to think about it and call me back after discussing it with their support at home, once they are sure they want to move forward. I already have them sign the form, which is kept by Dayanna Ocegueda our 'Mobilizer', until the patient gets back to us, so we don't have to collect a signature at a later time. Since Dayanna Ocegueda sees all my phone calls and MyCharts she is mde aware of the patient's decision before I do and moves the process forward. Communications between neurology and GI occur through Epic. On the day of titration in clinic, the GI PA is kind enough to stop by in clinic to check on the stoma. 

Nothing. The Nurse educators were amazing and even cam to NMH to give me a tutorial on the tube itself as a re-fresher course before I started placing more of these tubes in my practice.  We were fortunate to have excellent surgical support from the beginning so I am not sure I would have done anything differently.  I think more formal training in managing the pump would have been useful.  I think it went quite smooth at Rush University but I owe that to Dayanna Ocegueda for being extremely organized. Our Duopa RN (Tony D.) at the time was also very helpful it coordinating the care between GI and movement.  I wouldn't have done anything different. With the help from the Abbvie team we were able to make a smooth transition.  We are blessed with a very good well oiled machine between the Nurse coordinator at the Movement Disorder Clinic and my scheduling MA. I just got off the phone and talked to Pam Salas and asked her how are things going from IR's end,  and she said one word 'Fabulous' . There are certain situations where the patient post placement and post initiation of treatment have some tube malfunction issues, either having a hard time flushing or getting a 'high pressure' signal, then they call 'Duopa Connect' and the 'Nurse Coordinator' at the Movement disorder clinic. They in turn let us know and we get on the 'tube Maintainenance and Check' either same day or next day.  I probably would have identified one or more colleagues in interventional radiology sooner.  Early on, when patients had J tubes that became displaced, I was taking the back to the operating room to reposition the tubes endoscopically.  This not only became a little challenging for me from a scheduling standpoint, but it also resulted in an additional anesthetic and OR time for the patient.  Having the J-tube was repositioned under fluoroscopy in the IR suite with no anesthesia has been a real benefit.  I'm overall happy with our Treatment team. We've had smooth transitions between 3 different GI docs and 2 different neurologists so I think the workflow is pretty successful.  I don't think we would be doing much differently but it has been good to have a person or our point of contact who can have communication with the Gi team's point of contact. The relationship between proceduralist and MDS is key in that they can pick up the phone, text, email, etc to discuss cases in a timely manner. If there were case conferences monthly that may help as well.  I agree with both comments that Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C made 

From the Duopa Workflow perspective, this is right on point. I have learned more about the optional patient support mechanisms through this Ad Board and know that the majority of these connections are made through Neurology, but this will certainly enhance my practice as well with re-iterating their availability and importance. The Nurse Educator role is vitally important.  Other than COVID related restrictions; in general I personally could do a better job of setting up team meetings between Neuro and GI so we can assess how to improve our efficiency with referral to procedure time @all Have you personally noticed improvements in the process and timing recently?  Secondly, any specific recommendations you might suggest to improve the experience? Since all  our providers use Duopa, we have at least one less step.  We do not refer them to the "Duopa person".  This is an accurate reflection of what I see with my patients.  Agree it is accurate  This accurately represents the patient experience at Rush University.  I haven't noticed any change but do not have any issues either! @all Have you personally noticed improvements in the process and timing recently?  Secondly, any specific recommendations you might suggest to improve the experience? This is an accurate description of the patient experience.  Overall , our patieints have loved the 'process' of getting their Duopa Gel Therapy initiated including the interventional procedure . Despite multiple  points of contact and communication, it is really amazing to see all the pieces of the puzzle come together for these patients ! That means everybody's heart is in the right place to help patients!  I think that overall, it is a very nice and smooth process.  The patients really appreciate the nurse ambassadors who come out to their homes to assist them with the tubes and troubleshoot any problems.  I think the patients also benefit from the fact that my nurse practitioners are in clinic 5 days a week so they can assist with tube problems even if I am not there.  I know that the neurology nurse practitioner is also available to assist patients 5 days a week.  I think this accurately describes the experience of our patients at NM.  It seems consistent with what we do at Hoag. I cannot imagine anything different outside of having part of the On-boarding to be a phone call immediately with the Nurse Ambassador. Having such early communication can be re-assuring.  @all Have you personally noticed improvements in the process and timing recently?  Secondly, any specific recommendations you might suggest to improve the experience?  Yes, this seems like a good representation.
I would like for the Duopa nurse ambassador to perhaps make another visit after 1 month, to make sure that good practices are being followed.  Have not noticed any changes. Please make sure the teams know what the latest requirements are as far as what we need to put in the chart, as these requirements seem to change a bit (for instance, what drugs have been tried and failed) @all Have you personally noticed improvements in the process and timing recently?  Secondly, any specific recommendations you might suggest to improve the experience?

Making point people for contact has been key. Previously we had several different providers placing these tubes, but they all had various levels of comfort with the tubes themselves. Now becoming a point person from a procedural standpoint has greatly improved communication and direction of the program.  I agree with Sandeep. There are metrics regarding this process that would certainly be quantifiable from an external review board to qualify a team or center as a COE. Would be very beneficial to patients (and our respective institutions) if these centers are recognized and also made available through AbbVie's promotional literature to increase visibility of these programs and increase referral patterns. @all These are some great comments already.  Adding on the ones listed, can any one else think of other enhancements in their treatment team, or differences that changed in their program since they started and have been beneficial?   Example, a new way of enrolling the patient, new communication system between offices, educating patients, etc. The challenges were mostly local regulatory and insurance.  The same challenges we have for every therapy.  The main challenge I face is convincing patients to get the procedure done. Once it is implanted, almost all patients are very happy. We have no major efficiency issues on our treatment team.  I think the best thing is putting them in touch with another patient who has Duopa and also letting them know that it is not permanent - if they don't like the tube it can always be removed. This often helps convince them. thanks for the comments Avram Fraint Carolyn Taylor, anything you have changed in the way you have presented this therapy to patients over time? I think we were organized from the beginning. Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD identified an interested GI specialist early. It probably helped being involved in the clinical trial. 
The only thing that I have become better at is writing what is necessary for insurance approval in my epic notes. This makes the process more efficient.  We had to get better at the insurance approvals. At first we were not sure what criteria was needed in order to be approved, but now that we now it makes the process much faster.  Picking Friday's as a designated procedure day for these procedures and the following monday appointment for dose titration with the nurse educator at the Movement Disorder Team. Early on, we made sure that the scheduling piece works well and the credit for that goes to Pam Salas and my Clinic Facilitator and our IR scheduling team . This is truly the critical piece. Now we do not require any clinical support for placement so that is one less thing to coordinate. This used to be a challenge early on.  Finding an interventional radiologist who is willing to reposition the J-tube has been a major help for us.  It is much easier to get patients into IR than it is to get them into the OR for an endoscopic procedure.  Thus, patients are treated more quickly by IR and they can therefore get back on their medication sooner.  This has drastically improved our efficiency compared to when we first started out.  I agree convincing patient's to move forward with Duopa is a challenge. I think there is some selection bias in this as many patients who would benefit from Duopa the most have already foregone other treatment options earlier in their disease (like other medications, or sometimes DBS), so they are probably more reluctant to try new therapies in general. The main challenge I face is convincing patients to get the procedure done. Once it is implanted, almost all patients are very happy. We have no major efficiency issues on our treatment team. I haven't felt that we've met any major challenges. It helps that our treatment team is all located in the same building, and we are all Northwestern providers able to communicate through the same EMR.  Agreed - it helps for patients to hear success stories. Emphasizing reversibility has been helpful for some patients as well. I think the best thing is putting them in touch with another patient who has Duopa and also letting them know that it is not permanent - if they don't like the tube it can always be removed. This often helps convince them. I think having centers of excellence (COE) for Duopa therapy will allow patients to be aware that Duopa therapy is something of substance. The therapy has accolades to it which patients can better grasp its importance. Enrolling patients would be easier because they seek out these COE @all These are some great comments already.  Adding on the ones listed, can any one else think of other enhancements in their treatment team, or differences that changed in their program since they started and have been beneficial?   Example, a new way of enrolling the patient, new communication system between offices, educating patients, etc. I agree with Tom Davis that insurances affect efficiency. Tubing problems from Non-abbvie products caused some delays and limited Abbvie from troubleshooting issues since "it wasn't Abbvie tubing". Finding the best proceduralist i can see is an issue that other centers may have.  thanks for the comments Avram Fraint, MD, MS Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC, anything you have changed in the way you have presented this therapy to patients over time? I agree convincing patient's to move forward with Duopa is a challenge. I think there is some selection bias in this as many patients who would benefit from Duopa the most have already foregone other treatment options earlier in their disease (like other medications, or sometimes DBS), so they are probably more reluctant to try new therapies in general. @all These are some great comments already.  Adding on the ones listed, can any one else think of other enhancements in their treatment team, or differences that changed in their program since they started and have been beneficial?   Example, a new way of enrolling the patient, new communication system between offices, educating patients, etc.  Agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C's comments. 
As far as improving ways to present patients with the Duopa options, I agree with Avram Fraint, MD, MS as far as the importance of established Duopa patients speaking with potential Duopa patients.
Making sure patients know the stoma is reversible, the therapy does not have to be used at all times, if they prefer to not show the pump during a special event, all need to be emphasized 
