I'm sure this is already being done, but if each patient  is mandatorily assigned a Nurse Educator, that would be tremendous. I have seen patients that felt "over-confident" in their abilities since they have had tubes before and then ultimately fail to seek help until there are large issues because they tried to inappropriately manipulate the connectors. Not sure if that will entirely fix the issue, but at least would provide more of an "opt out" scenario as opposed to "opt-in" for support.  Maybe providing semi-annual to annual updates regarding the medication or company changes along with any patient specific handouts they would like us to distribute to patients during those points of contact in clinic or after their procedures. @all How can your local Account executive / representative be more helpful? I do not have any further suggestions.  None  pretty satisfied as well.  But update on changes from the company side would be helpful like Harold Boutte, Jr, MD mentioned @all How can your local Account executive / representative be more helpful? I am very happy!  No suggestions.  I believe podcasts targeted to potential Parkinson's patients AFTER their physicians have initiated the conversation regarding Duopa Gel Treatment with a dedicated GJ tube may help facilitate better understanding. Also providing periodic updates would be worthwhile. Having coordinated zoom conferences on line may also be a consideration, basically a platform for patients and families to ask questions to a panel.  I think this is a regulatory thing, but it would be helpful if nurse ambassadors could communicate with the patient's treatment team directly. Currently I think the nurse ambassador has to speak with Duoconnect, who then has to relay the issue to me (correct me if I'm wrong). I feel like this makes communication feel less familiar and more disjointed. I imagine patients would be more satisfied if there could be more open lines of communication.  I do think having younger patients with Duopa need to be involved with any marketing such as their success stories. Abbvie needs to show that dyskinesias can be better controlled with Duopa. There has been post marketing data about this.  @all How can your local Account executive / representative be more helpful?  Satisfied  I think our account executive is helpful and responsive @all How can your local Account executive / representative be more helpful? This is an interesting point. In general younger patients tend to be 'automatically' directed towards DBS and the question is if that in the end is always the best strategy. For instance, young patients who are fluctuators, but don't have significant dyskinesias or LD resistant tremor, and who are on not on very high daily doses of LD could be good candidates for infusion therapies as well. So showing that possibility may change the image of Duopa as a therapy for only those who are no good candidates for DBS. I do think having younger patients with Duopa need to be involved with any marketing such as their success stories. Abbvie needs to show that dyskinesias can be better controlled with Duopa. There has been post marketing data about this.