Typically 30-40% due to fear from managing the tube itself or the pump technology  I would estimate 10-20%,  Hello all.  Thank you for your comments on this topic.  Is there anything that you think could or would improve this percentage?  I would defer to Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC on this, but I am surprised to see her estimate of about 40%. I would have guessed this to be lower.  Probably around 20% of patients.  Less than 20%, but those are the patient's that are typically very anxious.  I think around 20%.  Consistently prevails !  I'll have to defer to Tom Davis on this one.  I'm pretty sure that practically ALL the patients that see us in Gen Surg clinic eventually go on to get there PEG-J tube placed.  The only one I can think of who didn't was a recent patient who had previously had a Gastric Bypass, and would have this required a modified (laparoscopic) placement of her tube.  Since this would represent a significantly more invasive procedure, I had her go through a Duopa trial with the nasojejunal tube first.  The patient felt that she didn't get much benefit from the medication, so she decided not to proceed with permanent tube placement.  I can't think of any other patients that I've seen who have not ultimately gotten the PEG-J placed.  Probably about 40%  10-15 %. We have asked patients to only move forward and enroll once they are confident in the idea of the PEG-J tube and Duopa therapy which I think keeps this % typically lower. Our surgeon does a great job of instilling confidence in patients based on outcomes from prior cases. I wish patients would be able to only enroll and start the auth process only after they see both the surgeon and neurologist. Having the neurologist enroll them first before seeing the proceduralist will affect this number.  I think less than 20% is a reasonable estimate.
With Covid it may have been higher than usual, as patients like to stay away form the hospital.
To answer Brad Durbin ways to bring that down could be as Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. suggested, and prescribe only after Neuro and GI have both seen and reassured the patient. I usually don't do that because by the time they come and see me for interventional therapies they want something done and I don't want to delay the process. But it may be a good practice when one discovers trepidation on the patien's side. 