30-60  I would say it is usually in the 30 day range.  I believe they are often evaluated by surgery prior to med approval.  Our surgeon would know better. None of our patients have ever complained about the wait.  The average time it takes between the initial consultation with me until the PEG-J is placed is (at best) usually 30-60 days. This seems to vary considerably based on insurance and also how aggressive the patient is about proceeding.  I would agree with Leo, it is likely 1-2 months from signing the script to the PEG-J procedure. The usual delay is the patient having second thoughts.  Douglas Varian I do think it has sped up, likely because we are familiar (with the help of Dayanna Ocegueda) with what insurance companies require so we write what is required in our notes initially. In the past we would often times have to update our notes and resubmit which would prolong the process. Hi Jessica &amp; others - Has the time frame of clearance sped up over the years of prescribing Duopa?  If so, any particular reason you think? It depends. Sometimes it can be as quick as 6 weeks depending on the availability of the GI doctors and how quick we can get through the insurance verification process. Or it can take up to 2 months or more if we are having difficulty with  patient's having second thoughts or with facilities approving the drug for patients.  4 to 6 weeks. This includes getting a Interventional Radiology Clinic consultation and then setting up the procedure with anesthesia in the IR lab. There is potential if clinically necessary to ' truncate' this time.  It appears that the time frame is pretty consistent in most of the practices. ~ 4-8 weeks. Good to know that we are in the middle.  Thanks Tom Davis, that probably sounds about right.  We usually try to get the patients in an seen by one of our Clinic NPs as soon as we are made aware of the patient's Duopa eligibility and/or decision to proceed with the medication.  That way we can get them scheduled for the OR as quickly as possible.  There can often be a 2-4 week time frame from their clinic visit to their procedure in the OR, depending on my operative availability. I would say it is usually in the 30 day range.  I believe they are often evaluated by surgery prior to med approval.  Our surgeon would know better. None of our patients have ever complained about the wait. If the patient is ready to proceed with the PEG-J procedure, then typically 30-45 days. Pt readiness to proceed with Duopa often leads to delays in scheduling the GI consult and/or the PEG-J procedure, and in this case I have had some patients wait 6 months to a year before proceeding with Duopa (after already being cleared to ship)  14 days to indefinite....I agree with all of you on this question. A few patients have been quite motivated and get into our amazing surgeon's Caitlin Houghton, MD office, and are ready to go with a scheduled procedure date just over 2 weeks.  We have patients only sign for clearance of the Duopa script only if there is a reasonable timeline and motivation to have it done, and that has allowed most of our patients to have the procedure done in a month. However, there is a range from 30 days to 60 days based on insurance authorizing the procedure and second thoughts about the procedure from patients that delay this timetable. We have however many patients that were so motivated and decided to hold off for a time period, and have come back to it a year later.  Hi Jessica &amp; others - Has the time frame of clearance sped up over the years of prescribing Duopa?  If so, any particular reason you think? I would agree with Leo, it is likely 1-2 months from signing the script to the PEG-J procedure. The usual delay is the patient having second thoughts. Not sure what 'clearance of a Duopa script means', but assume it is when we sent out the script; from there until PEG-J it is probably 2 months. That is IF I did not forget to write in the chart what different medications have been tried in the past, or other details. 