Given my background in internal medicine and specifically GI, I feel comfortable fielding the questions regarding movement disorders and their effect on GI motility as well as describing medication absorption through the jejunum as well from a drug kinetic perspective.

What would be VERY helpful is an overview of the pump itself and the programming so I can be more knowledgeable about how the run times, boluses and alarms to help with trouble shooting. These questions are invariably deferred to Carolyn Taylor and Avram Fraint, however I still  receive these questions from patients regardless. Caitlin Houghton Sanjiv Parikh Sandeep Thakkar Richard A Pierce Harold Boutte, Jr These are great insights, thank you Dr. Houghton.  Often times for new surgeons placing the tubing, they don't have as much awareness of the disease / therapy when starting placing the tubing.  In your experience and opinion, would it be helpful for proceduralists to have more education of the disease / therapy from the beginning to assist in those conversations with the patient?  I certainly know the neurologists are having these conversations, but it seems patients ask each physician about the therapy etc. Thanks to both Avram and Carolyn, when they see me they are more than well informed regarding Duopa, and typically have specific questions about the tube itself (i.e. How it's placed, recovery time, day-to-day care, need for replacement, etc.). These are very common question that I field when placing tubes in general so as a provider it keeps me within my sphere of expertise without having to over extend myself by answering questions I'm not comfortable with. Caitlin Houghton Sanjiv Parikh Richard A Pierce Harold Boutte, Jr - Do patients ask you specific questions geared towards Duopa &amp; Parkinson's disease? I was trained by Dr. Adam Stein, who previously placed the majority of Duopa tubes here at NMH and I took over as the lead for placing these tubes this past year.  I treat patients with Parkinson's disease.  If you do that, you should be proficient in the therapies for PD.  Duopa is a therapy for PD, so I am involved.  Caitlin Houghton, MD Sanjiv Parikh, MD, DRM Richard A Pierce, MD, PhD Harold Boutte, Jr, MD - Do patients ask you specific questions geared towards Duopa &amp; Parkinson's disease? Dr. Thakkar approached me to see if I would help with tube placement in 2017 and we have been working together ever since. During my fellowship training at Rush I focused and was trained on DBS. At Rush, similar to my current position at Northwestern, the DBS team was also responsible for all infusion based therapies, and so this was included as part of my training as well. When I arrived at Northwestern I soon took over the advanced therapeutics program along with Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC which covers essentially all interventional therapies for PD.  Dr. Thakkar approached me to see if I would help with tube placement in 2017 and we have been working together ever since.  They do, But I always start the consultation by saying that Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. and I work closely together to get them the best treatment possible.  That his role is to decide if they are a good candidate for the medication administered by this route and my role is to make sure the tube is placed safely.  This tends to defer most of the Parkinson's related questions back to his office.  They tend to ask if this will help their symptoms and have I seen improvement in patients.  I tend to answer that question by saying yes I do believe it significantly helps patients.  I don't get to see the full effects but I do know that very few patients take the tube out electively and patients who have an issue with the tube and need replacement are eager to get back to the infusion. Caitlin Houghton Sanjiv Parikh Richard A Pierce Harold Boutte, Jr - Do patients ask you specific questions geared towards Duopa &amp; Parkinson's disease? Usually hesitancy is due to unfamiliarity.  On the proceduralist side, it is important that my nursing staff feel comfortable with the tube and its parts in order to answer patient concerns or to help troubleshoot issues.  I have made sure my nurses know how to replace the parts on the outer tube and know common issues that can occur... tube leaks especially if the tube is over 2 years old...Disconnection of the J-tube from the y connector.  This allows them to feel they have the expertise to be a valuable member. Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Avram Fraint Honestly I probably could use a quick overview of the basics so that I am somewhat knowledgeable.  Maybe that would be a good addition to our next dinner meeting! Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. can give a brief presentation on Parkinson's and the reasons why patients are good candidates and I can give a short presentation on the procedure itself so all team members have a baseline knowledge of both components. Caitlin Houghton Sanjiv Parikh Sandeep Thakkar Richard A Pierce Harold Boutte, Jr These are great insights, thank you Dr. Houghton.  Often times for new surgeons placing the tubing, they don't have as much awareness of the disease / therapy when starting placing the tubing.  In your experience and opinion, would it be helpful for proceduralists to have more education of the disease / therapy from the beginning to assist in those conversations with the patient?  I certainly know the neurologists are having these conversations, but it seems patients ask each physician about the therapy etc. Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. Yes you are always invited! Caitlin Houghton sounds like that would be great for our next meeting to have a discussion of these points. Maybe i can actually attend the procedure to get a perspective from start to finish. I have been directly involved in the interventional program at Rush University for 7 years. It was only natural to include Duopa as one of the treatment options I would offer to patients with advanced PD.  As long as the members of the team have clear roles and there is good communication between teams (neurology and GI) managing Duopa patients is not a burden. We have many patients who have been on this therapy for many years who have been stable. The support from Abbvie is also excellent! Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Avram Fraint I was hired for the surgical intervention team at Rush.  I was approached directly by our our Movement disorder physician and I readily agreed as I recognized very quickly that this would help the patient. Moreover, we had participated with our GI team before in the Freka Tube Trial. We did have significant challenges with combined scheduling and moreover, some technical issues leading to the coaxial jejunostomy tube being pulled back and coiled in the stomach, because of the 'Angle of entry' of the percutaneous G tube tract. The patients were coming back for J tube repositioning. But after IR has taken over with both placement of the Pull through G tube and the coaxial tube, we have had no problems. This has also made scheduling very easy.  It also helped to see some remarkable results early on in the Freka Tube Trial.  As per my previous answer, I was approached directly by the movement disorder team to assist with placing the tubes.  Actually, technically, a colleague of mine was approached, but he was already spread to thin to take on the additional clinical volume, so he passed along to me.  I am certainly quite thankful for this as it has become a very nice niche practice for me.  I was specifically hired to help with care of patients in our advanced therapeutics program (DBS and Duopa)  I think Duopa outcomes speak for themselves. Seeing a patient before and after Duopa is a good way to get buy-in from team members about the significant quality of life improvement that is possible with Duopa. Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Avram Fraint Caitlin Houghton, MD sounds like that would be great for our next meeting to have a discussion of these points. Maybe i can actually attend the procedure to get a perspective from start to finish. Honestly I probably could use a quick overview of the basics so that I am somewhat knowledgeable.  Maybe that would be a good addition to our next dinner meeting! Sandeep Thakkar can give a brief presentation on Parkinson's and the reasons why patients are good candidates and I can give a short presentation on the procedure itself so all team members have a baseline knowledge of both components. I would say my involvement began with the FDA approval of Duopa. As a movement specialist this was an expected requirement to offer this to patients. There was a lot of time required to get trained and be informed but completely worth it based on outcomes  Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton, MD Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC Tom Davis Avram Fraint, MD, MS  Caitlin Houghton, MD Sanjiv Parikh, MD, DRM Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. Richard A Pierce, MD, PhD Harold Boutte, Jr, MD These are great insights, thank you Dr. Houghton.  Often times for new surgeons placing the tubing, they don't have as much awareness of the disease / therapy when starting placing the tubing.  In your experience and opinion, would it be helpful for proceduralists to have more education of the disease / therapy from the beginning to assist in those conversations with the patient?  I certainly know the neurologists are having these conversations, but it seems patients ask each physician about the therapy etc. They do, But I always start the consultation by saying that Sandeep Thakkar and I work closely together to get them the best treatment possible.  That his role is to decide if they are a good candidate for the medication administered by this route and my role is to make sure the tube is placed safely.  This tends to defer most of the Parkinson's related questions back to his office.  They tend to ask if this will help their symptoms and have I seen improvement in patients.  I tend to answer that question by saying yes I do believe it significantly helps patients.  I don't get to see the full effects but I do know that very few patients take the tube out electively and patients who have an issue with the tube and need replacement are eager to get back to the infusion. Tom Davis and I both come from a training program where 'continuous dopaminergic stimulation' was touted as a therapy decades before Duopa came out, so this therapy was something we had been waiting for. We did the pivotal study and then just moved on to the commercial therapy.  I would say 'live a little'. I bet in most places these teams are the most fun to work with! Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Avram Fraint