Didn't even know this was available but will request copies as this has language regarding tube care which I would like to review with patients upon discharge after placement.  Tom Davis thank you.  Your comments are well received and we can definitely see how the placemat could seem overly complicated.  Do you think a annual/semi-annual meeting with your treatment team members at Vanderbilt dedicated to discussing responsibilities and evolving management topics would be helpful?  Is it something you already do?  Would something like this be helpful for AbbVie to host? We would probably not use it.  It seems over complicated.  Our patients continue to see the doctor they have always seen and contact surgery if they have problems with the tube.  I think the simpler you can make it seem to the patient, the more they view it as "no big deal" and are more likely to try the therapy. Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C Thank you and we agree this resource is more geared towards treatment teams just getting started.  Does your established treatment team at Rush regularly meet to discuss and refine responsibilities and evolving patient management topics? We have not participated in a program using this resource. I think this resource would be useful for a team new to Duopa. We would probably not use it.  It seems over complicated.  Our patients continue to see the doctor they have always seen and contact surgery if they have problems with the tube.  I think the simpler you can make it seem to the patient, the more they view it as "no big deal" and are more likely to try the therapy.  Seems like something we could try to incorporate in the future. Our neuro and GI teams had a meeting several years ago, prior to the development of this placemat resource. Unfortunately we have not had the opportunity to get together with our new treatment team (including new neurologist and proceduralist) due in part to the pandemic. I agree that this may be nice for new partnerships so that not only the physicians know the roles but that the supportive staff know the workflow as well.  Our team happened organically but this a nice resource to have to start conversation about roles and workflow.  We have not participated in a program using this resource. I think this resource would be useful for a team new to Duopa.  At our center we do not regularly meet but we will discuss if an issue arises to prevent it in the future. Jessica Karl Thank you and we agree this resource is more geared towards treatment teams just getting started.  Does your established treatment team at Rush regularly meet to discuss and refine responsibilities and evolving patient management topics? I've never used this placemat, but perhaps it could be useful.  Have not used this resource personally but I believe the Movement Disorder point person does use some segment of this  plan. 
I did notice that everywhere the tube is described at percutaneous endoscopic PEG-J. Being an interventional radiologist performing this procedure, it would be worthwhile also including 'IR Percutaneous pull through Gastro-J'.  I was not aware that this was available, and I have never used it.  It does seem like it would be a helpful resource though!  Our neuro and GI teams had a meeting several years ago, prior to the development of this placemat resource. Unfortunately we have not had the opportunity to get together with our new treatment team (including new neurologist and proceduralist) due in part to the pandemic.  I think we can utilize this format but I think it can be more useful for programs starting up. It doesn't fit our need as an established program  Have not used the placement, but it may be a good starting point for a meeting between all players of a new Duopa team.
I think it is useful to have a team meeting with the different disciplines. We had one or 2 such dinner meetings and there are always issues to discuss. Importantly it also is an opportunity to show appreciation to all involved and renew the engagement of all parties to the therapy. 