Didn't know this was available either and would be better if these different resources were compiled into one Tube specific resource that is distributed by the Proceduralist  Didn't know this resource was available. Would prefer to use Abbvie Standard language as we have been using our own standard handouts for tube care in general in my practice. Would be helpful so this can be re-enforced across both GI and Neurology clinics as points of patient contact. Caitlin Houghton Harold Boutte, Jr do you use this resource to provide your patients with post procedure information or is there another specific resource you prefer? Caitlin Houghton, MD Harold Boutte, Jr, MD do you use this resource to provide your patients with post procedure information or is there another specific resource you prefer?  You would need to ask our surgeon.  we have not used the resource at NW  I do use this post procedure information.  It is given to them in a packet of information. The part that I do not like and tell them to ignore is the moving the tube portion.  I do not want them to move the tube.  I feel it puts them at more risk for the stomach to fall away from the abdominal wall.  I do make sure they know what to do if the tube is sliding in and out and not secured tightly to the skin. Then I tell them to unclasp, pull out til there is resistance, then secure the clasp close to the skin.  I have a problem with the move the tube daily information seen throughout these informational packets.  I get the ideal is preventing the bumper from imbedding into the tissue but I think the risk of the stomach falling away from the abdominal wall is much more concerning and I don't think patients need to worry about moving the tube.  I would prefer that the information discuss that the tube should not slide and the clasp should be close to the skin.  If they see the tube sliding then give instructions on how to unclamp and pull until resistance...  I have not seen this resource. This would be a good resource for neurology RNs/MAs to have for when patients call our office regarding their tubing.  I am not sure if patients receive this after procedure, but it would be a good guide for them to follow.  All our patients get this information.  After the procedure is completed.  I haven't seen this resource before, but I know NM's GI team has a similar, internal document they developed for Duopa patients.  This is fantastic and did not know like others that this existed. These resources need to be given either by the home nurse or after the procedure. For neurology, its good for us to have this as well incase discussions arise  Richard A Pierce, MD, PhD is this a piece that is used for your patients for post procedure information, or is there something specific to your institution that is typically used? You would need to ask our surgeon. Not sure if our GI team uses this or have their own handouts 