Making point people for contact has been key. Previously we had several different providers placing these tubes, but they all had various levels of comfort with the tubes themselves. Now becoming a point person from a procedural standpoint has greatly improved communication and direction of the program.  I agree with Sandeep. There are metrics regarding this process that would certainly be quantifiable from an external review board to qualify a team or center as a COE. Would be very beneficial to patients (and our respective institutions) if these centers are recognized and also made available through AbbVie's promotional literature to increase visibility of these programs and increase referral patterns. @all These are some great comments already.  Adding on the ones listed, can any one else think of other enhancements in their treatment team, or differences that changed in their program since they started and have been beneficial?   Example, a new way of enrolling the patient, new communication system between offices, educating patients, etc. The challenges were mostly local regulatory and insurance.  The same challenges we have for every therapy.  The main challenge I face is convincing patients to get the procedure done. Once it is implanted, almost all patients are very happy. We have no major efficiency issues on our treatment team.  I think the best thing is putting them in touch with another patient who has Duopa and also letting them know that it is not permanent - if they don't like the tube it can always be removed. This often helps convince them. thanks for the comments Avram Fraint Carolyn Taylor, anything you have changed in the way you have presented this therapy to patients over time? I think we were organized from the beginning. Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD identified an interested GI specialist early. It probably helped being involved in the clinical trial. 
The only thing that I have become better at is writing what is necessary for insurance approval in my epic notes. This makes the process more efficient.  We had to get better at the insurance approvals. At first we were not sure what criteria was needed in order to be approved, but now that we now it makes the process much faster.  Picking Friday's as a designated procedure day for these procedures and the following monday appointment for dose titration with the nurse educator at the Movement Disorder Team. Early on, we made sure that the scheduling piece works well and the credit for that goes to Pam Salas and my Clinic Facilitator and our IR scheduling team . This is truly the critical piece. Now we do not require any clinical support for placement so that is one less thing to coordinate. This used to be a challenge early on.  Finding an interventional radiologist who is willing to reposition the J-tube has been a major help for us.  It is much easier to get patients into IR than it is to get them into the OR for an endoscopic procedure.  Thus, patients are treated more quickly by IR and they can therefore get back on their medication sooner.  This has drastically improved our efficiency compared to when we first started out.  I agree convincing patient's to move forward with Duopa is a challenge. I think there is some selection bias in this as many patients who would benefit from Duopa the most have already foregone other treatment options earlier in their disease (like other medications, or sometimes DBS), so they are probably more reluctant to try new therapies in general. The main challenge I face is convincing patients to get the procedure done. Once it is implanted, almost all patients are very happy. We have no major efficiency issues on our treatment team. I haven't felt that we've met any major challenges. It helps that our treatment team is all located in the same building, and we are all Northwestern providers able to communicate through the same EMR.  Agreed - it helps for patients to hear success stories. Emphasizing reversibility has been helpful for some patients as well. I think the best thing is putting them in touch with another patient who has Duopa and also letting them know that it is not permanent - if they don't like the tube it can always be removed. This often helps convince them. I think having centers of excellence (COE) for Duopa therapy will allow patients to be aware that Duopa therapy is something of substance. The therapy has accolades to it which patients can better grasp its importance. Enrolling patients would be easier because they seek out these COE @all These are some great comments already.  Adding on the ones listed, can any one else think of other enhancements in their treatment team, or differences that changed in their program since they started and have been beneficial?   Example, a new way of enrolling the patient, new communication system between offices, educating patients, etc. I agree with Tom Davis that insurances affect efficiency. Tubing problems from Non-abbvie products caused some delays and limited Abbvie from troubleshooting issues since "it wasn't Abbvie tubing". Finding the best proceduralist i can see is an issue that other centers may have.  thanks for the comments Avram Fraint, MD, MS Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC, anything you have changed in the way you have presented this therapy to patients over time? I agree convincing patient's to move forward with Duopa is a challenge. I think there is some selection bias in this as many patients who would benefit from Duopa the most have already foregone other treatment options earlier in their disease (like other medications, or sometimes DBS), so they are probably more reluctant to try new therapies in general. @all These are some great comments already.  Adding on the ones listed, can any one else think of other enhancements in their treatment team, or differences that changed in their program since they started and have been beneficial?   Example, a new way of enrolling the patient, new communication system between offices, educating patients, etc.  Agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C's comments. 
As far as improving ways to present patients with the Duopa options, I agree with Avram Fraint, MD, MS as far as the importance of established Duopa patients speaking with potential Duopa patients.
Making sure patients know the stoma is reversible, the therapy does not have to be used at all times, if they prefer to not show the pump during a special event, all need to be emphasized 