I recommend products I have tried but also recommend products with an evidence based theory as an endorsement.  I've tried the mocha Glucerna and really like it so I mention that to patients when recommending Glucerna.  Yes! If I have tried and liked a product and knows it works well I definitely want to share it with others.  I tend to go into detail around the experience of the product and the value to me.  Yes, I recommend products I know, have tried or used when it would be of benefit to the patient. In addition, I do rely on evidence-based research to back the use of a product (or Med etc) and how it works when educating patients.  I think any evidence-based research that can be made available would enhance providers' understanding and recommendations for a product @all would information provided with the product be adequate for education or would you like to see or require additional studies or evidence along with the products prior to suggesting it to patients? Glucerna is something I provide samples of to my diabetics so they try it before investing in them. Many of my patients live on a fixed income so cost is an issue and being able to try first is crucial.  I also discuss how it can be a meal on the go substitute or they can just se half as a snack Answer: Yes.  Comment: Glucerna is something I provide samples of to my diabetics so they try it before investing in them. Many of my patients live on a fixed income so cost is an issue and being able to try first is crucial. In the realm of nutrition, I tend to recommend tips and tricks either I or someone I know have tried and would recommend. However, I have no problem recommending something I have not tried if there is good science behind it.  If a clinician is not familiar with the science behind the product, it would be good to include the studies that are currently available. Of course, this would not need to be included in the patient portion. 

Other areas that might be of interest for future studies: use in prediabetes and prevention of DM2, effect on GI symptoms/IBS. @all would information provided with the product be adequate for education or would you like to see or require additional studies or evidence along with the products prior to suggesting it to patients? Definetely  @all would information provided with the product be adequate for education or would you like to see or require additional studies or evidence along with the products prior to suggesting it to patients?  Thanks so much for your reply! If a clinician is not familiar with the science behind the product, it would be good to include the studies that are currently available. Of course, this would not need to be included in the patient portion. 

Other areas that might be of interest for future studies: use in prediabetes and prevention of DM2, effect on GI symptoms/IBS. Thanks so much Holly :) I think any evidence-based research that can be made available would enhance providers' understanding and recommendations for a product That's great Diane Hart, MA, BA, ADN . It's great when we can recommend a product that tastes great. Answer: Yes.  Comment: I've tried the mocha Glucerna and really like it so I mention that to patients when recommending Glucerna.