I think it is important for the NP/PA to understand what the product tastes like and understand the contents of the patient Kit so they can explain this educational material in depth with the patient.  I want to be able to speak from experience and if it doesn't taste good or work well, I would hesitate to recommend.  Absolutely! It is very important to try a product before recommending to patients.  I feel it adds more credibility to getting the patient's buy-in to trying it.  It would even help it I shop for the product and know more about cost and using the coupons.  Yes I would prefer small size just to see if I like it. @all when you try a product (as an HCP), would you prefer it in a smaller sample size (less waste if just sampling)? Or, would you prefer to try it in the standard size? I think it adds to the providers understanding of the product, its use, what they liked about it and recommendations for how they used it or how the patient can best utilize it. I think patients appreciate hearing if it is a product you would trust to use yourself.  I agree, a variety of flavors would enhance continued use Absolutely! Palate fatigue is an issue that often comes up when anyone (providers/patients) are following a dietary program. If more options were available, I would want to know to include this in the nutrition discussion and alert patients of the change. I think it is crucial for us to know what we recommending to our patients.  I think a smaller sample would be perfect. @all when you try a product (as an HCP), would you prefer it in a smaller sample size (less waste if just sampling)? Or, would you prefer to try it in the standard size? Yes I would want to know about other options available. I would definitely like to know. I think patients would love something not creamy and more like juice if that is possible. In general, it would help a clinician "buy into" a product and be able to speak to satiety and taste if they have tried it. However, it is not essential because we recommend intervention that we have not tried all the time (medications, weight loss programs, etc).  Absolutely! Palate fatigue is an issue that often comes up when anyone (providers/patients) are following a dietary program. If more options were available, I would want to know to include this in the nutrition discussion and alert patients of the change. @all would you want to be alerted when new flavors become available? Not necessarily as samples, but to have a head's up as it might be beneficial in terms of flavor preferences for patients etc. I believe HCPs would prefer a full size to assess the full experience (satiety, etc). If that is not possible, a small sample to assess taste/texture would be ok. @all when you try a product (as an HCP), would you prefer it in a smaller sample size (less waste if just sampling)? Or, would you prefer to try it in the standard size? I think we should know how something tastes and be able to give our personal feedback to patients about that  I would definitely like to know. I think patients would love something not creamy and more like juice if that is possible. @all would you want to be alerted when new flavors become available? Not necessarily as samples, but to have a head's up as it might be beneficial in terms of flavor preferences for patients etc. Patients have commented to me that they don't like the creamy taste of the chocolate/strawberry/vanilla products. With Americans liking sweetened beverages so much maybe that would be an option. Great observation about the juice-like product Maria Lena Walls .Are you suggestions people might prefer the consistency of a juice beverage? Or simply as an additional choice? Very interested in your comments. @all would you want to be alerted when new flavors become available? Not necessarily as samples, but to have a head's up as it might be beneficial in terms of flavor preferences for patients etc.  Great point about palate fatigue Ashlyn Smith, PA ! I agree that this type of information can be very helpful. Absolutely! Palate fatigue is an issue that often comes up when anyone (providers/patients) are following a dietary program. If more options were available, I would want to know to include this in the nutrition discussion and alert patients of the change. Great observation about the juice-like product Maria Lena Walls, NP .Are you suggestions people might prefer the consistency of a juice beverage? Or simply as an additional choice? Very interested in your comments. I would definitely like to know. I think patients would love something not creamy and more like juice if that is possible. @all when you try a product (as an HCP), would you prefer it in a smaller sample size (less waste if just sampling)? Or, would you prefer to try it in the standard size? 