I prefer obtaining the kit and explaining it to my patient to increase buy in.  This ensures the right person is getting the right product.  This is a difficult question because I believe it should just be deliver to the patient's home.  There is limited capacity in the medical practices to have packages delivered there.  There is a chance for things to get misplaced or lost. I would order the patient kit while they are at their office visit and let them know to expect it.  With time constraints, it would meet a need for a provider to have all the information presented succinctly, with key points and the key pieces (i.e. evidence based research resources) explained so providers don't have to sift through the information. Once providers know what to look for and where to find it, it makes explaining and recommending a product much simpler.....and simple is better:)  Sometimes the only way rep can get time with the providers in our office is to actually come for a lunch.  I think personalizing the addresses is crucial. Once the provider has received the kits I think it would be great to meet with the Rep for any questions. Yes in my office my MA sorts the mail and she would probably automatically unpack it and put it with our samples Mail like this often gets processed and put away without a clinicians direct involvement as it does with samples and pt ed materials. Plus, a direct rep contact putting it into context and answering initial questions significantly increases the likelihood a clinician will remember and use it.  Mailed items sometimes get lost  Yes in my office my MA sorts the mail and she would probably automatically unpack it and put it with our samples Thanks so much for your comments Ashlyn Smith .  @all Do you think it might make a difference if patient kit was mailed, but addressed to a specific clinician? Would that make it more personalized?
Good point about the reps ability to put everything into context/answer questions. What if a letter was included with the reps info encouraging a follow-up call to answer questions or schedule a meeting after the kit was utilized? Thanks so much for your comments Ashlyn Smith, PA .  @all Do you think it might make a difference if patient kit was mailed, but addressed to a specific clinician? Would that make it more personalized?
Good point about the reps ability to put everything into context/answer questions. What if a letter was included with the reps info encouraging a follow-up call to answer questions or schedule a meeting after the kit was utilized? Answer: Delivered in person by a rep.  Comment: Mail like this often gets processed and put away without a clinicians direct involvement as it does with samples and pt ed materials. Plus, a direct rep contact putting it into context and answering initial questions significantly increases the likelihood a clinician will remember and use it. Thanks so much for your reply Maria Lena Walls, NP :) Yes in my office my MA sorts the mail and she would probably automatically unpack it and put it with our samples