I prefer to form my own judgement and feel a rep is biased.  I understand their job is to sell but if I think the product has value I will use it.  Either way I am likely to sign up for a kit.  Just from my personal perspective I look at my email very frequently and I like free things. So with that in mind if the email stress ed that there was no obligation to purchase and it did not require a credit card I would sign up.  I agree, we receive too many emails already.
Please see my previous comments of how a rep can assist with the provider kit.  I can take time with the emails and they are flexible to fit my schedule  Again, we get so many email and mail request that it often becomes white noise and may be perceived as spam. It would increase utilization to have an in-person delivery to briefly explain the kit and purpose, to address any initial questions, and to be a point of contact for future questions.  We all get so many emails throughout the day. If an email is not from an individual that I recognize or have a compelling subject line, I will often delete it without reading it. To prevent that, I would recommend either a quick in person heads up from the local rep to look out for an email with details (vs a sit down in person demo of the kit) or have the email come directly from someone that the clinician knows. @all For those who would only sign up for the patient-kit via a face-to-face visit, is there anything that could be done to improve the e-mail communication that would make it more useful or in tune with your needs? 
Because of your time constraints, are there specific circumstances in which the e mail sign up might be more time efficient than an in-person meeting with a rep? Your thoughts are greatly appreciated! I get so many emails and am usually so busy a face to face meeting would be more effective  @all For those who would only sign up for the patient-kit via a face-to-face visit, is there anything that could be done to improve the e-mail communication that would make it more useful or in tune with your needs? 
Because of your time constraints, are there specific circumstances in which the e mail sign up might be more time efficient than an in-person meeting with a rep? Your thoughts are greatly appreciated!  Thanks so much for your thoughtful comments Ashlyn Smith, PA ! We all get so many emails throughout the day. If an email is not from an individual that I recognize or have a compelling subject line, I will often delete it without reading it. To prevent that, I would recommend either a quick in person heads up from the local rep to look out for an email with details (vs a sit down in person demo of the kit) or have the email come directly from someone that the clinician knows.