Exercises using a stationary bike, example of portion review using the plate method.  Extra coupons would help maintain sustainability.  I like the exercise idea, and also maybe a brief overview of the basics of diabetes and healthy eating such as appropriate carbohydrate amounts for snacks/meals.  Extra coupons and maybe a card with exercises on it to follow after drinking a supplement.  Well, any type of exercises to encourage increasing their activity will help with weight lose. Ex. Exercises that can be done in a chair, walking for 15 minutes or a floor exercise. Lisa Jasper can you please expand on what you mean by exercises? I like Maria Lena Walls, NP idea of daily recommended protein amounts so patients can see if/when they are deficient and Ashlyn Smith, PA idea of including the protein calculator tool. I couldn't find either on the website, so perhaps include them there and direct the patients on where to find them.  I think calorie controlled, a lot of people are looking for healthy low carb options, the food should not have to require refrigeration.  web site sign up, for reminders and also could text coupons for the patient as they document (via development of an app similar to MyFitnessPal) their progress, ie, drinking the glucerna daily (via documentation in the app). they can receive rewards, i.e., coupons.  The components that are currently there, the page to take to the clinician from my response to the last question, and the protein calculator tool Abbott has.  Variety of flavors, other food protein option ideas, daily recommended protein amounts  Lisa Jasper, RN, DNP, MSN, FNP, MBA can you please expand on what you mean by exercises? Extra coupons and maybe a card with exercises on it to follow after drinking a supplement. Thanks so much for clarifying. Much appreciated :) Well, any type of exercises to encourage increasing their activity will help with weight lose. Ex. Exercises that can be done in a chair, walking for 15 minutes or a floor exercise.