people who need to have meals on the go.  People who have motivation to try new things.  People who have some potential for malnutrition.  If they live with a supportive partner it would increase the chance they would try the kit.  Patients who are looking for meal replacements or low carb/high protein snack options.  BMI over 28
Obese
Diabetes
Pre diabetics
Eating disorders
Limited mobility
Patients that trust their healthcare provider
Healthcare Providers
People who work out daily  Patients who are busy and looking for ways to make their lives simpler. 
Patients who know they need to make healthy changes, but may not have the motivation or health literacy to understand how. 
Patients who have an unmet dietary protein intake for various reasons  Many of the patients I see are just like me, very busy!  We are working, trying to eat healthy and still maintain our busy schedules. Many are talking about a strong desire to lose weight or eat healthier a kit that focuses on these things and for specific populations like diabetics, those individuals with high cholesterol, or those looking to do the intermittent fasting which has been shown to have many benefits. The kit would be wonderful as it could help people launch a new healthier lifestyle that is easily accessible and cost effective.  Patients who are motivated to change, have hit barriers and are frustrated, patients who need more direction, patients who may not want to do a complete weight loss "program" but are looking for simple changes.  I like your point about where people live or who they live with. In addition to the great suggestions @all have mentioned below, we can also think about those whose living or working situations interfere with their attempts at lifestyle changes: those with children or partners who do not follow their same meal plan, thus the family is faced with making 2 versions of all meals; parents who are on the go either with young kiddos or teens with extracurriculars; professionals with a long commute or busy work day/working through lunch. These psychosocial factors leave people looking for quick, easy, prepared options to help them stay on track. @all Thank you so much for your responses to this questions. After thinking about all of your responses to the questions, are there any additional characteristics that might influence a patient to utilize a kit and benefit from what it provides? Perhaps thinking about people of all ages who may benefit from the kit.... would where they live or who they live with (for example), influence their use of the kit? People who are busy, motivated, patients wanting to better control their chronic diseases, post hospitalization, people who lose their hunger or living alone and not wanting to cook  @all Thank you so much for your responses to this questions. After thinking about all of your responses to the questions, are there any additional characteristics that might influence a patient to utilize a kit and benefit from what it provides? Perhaps thinking about people of all ages who may benefit from the kit.... would where they live or who they live with (for example), influence their use of the kit?  Thank you so much for your thoughtful response Ashlyn! I like your point about where people live or who they live with. In addition to the great suggestions @all have mentioned below, we can also think about those whose living or working situations interfere with their attempts at lifestyle changes: those with children or partners who do not follow their same meal plan, thus the family is faced with making 2 versions of all meals; parents who are on the go either with young kiddos or teens with extracurriculars; professionals with a long commute or busy work day/working through lunch. These psychosocial factors leave people looking for quick, easy, prepared options to help them stay on track.