These numbers are fairly accurate, however we have seen steady improvement thanks to the hard work of Carolyn Taylor and Avram Fraint to get these patients through the pipeline.  Dayanna Ocegueda Thank you for this feedback.  We are really interested in learning more about this communication.  Can you expand more on your communication with the DuoConnect nurse case manager?  How often do you speak with her/him?  Do you setup specific time to talk with them?  Any advice on how you have adjusted to make this communication better? I think those numbers are pretty low. It can all be brought up with the proper training. I worked closely with the DuoConnect nurse case manager to make sure all the pivotal information needed was in the notes I was submitting. I have a check list with the criteria needed for approval. Prior to submitting any forms I go through the notes to make sure everything needed is documented if not Leonard Verhagen Jessica Karl will addend the notes as necessary. I think some providers must enroll patients at the patients request but do not really think they are good candidates.  I am surprised the number is so low. From my end, I always try to make sure that my note includes any information the insurance company may need to proceed with Duopa.  The time to procedure is about right.  I tend to book case about 4 weeks out.  
The 50% get the tube I think is a bit low.  Might be nice to know where they fall out.  I think this makes sense. Our center has prescribed Duopa so much that we have overcome the chart deficiencies but I recall early on that we would have to resubmit our enrollment forms/chart notes because of this. Dayanna (medical assistant/coordinator) has also helped with this process immensely. She makes sure prior to submission that everything is in place. Dayanna Ocegueda I am sure you have more to comment!  I do not think it requires extra work just specific wording. In DBS there is also specific information insurance companies look at to approve the therapy. @all Great insights into your process and workflow for submitting Duopa patient enrollment forms.  My question to all on the Neurologist side: Does Duopa require extra work for chart notes as compared to other advanced therapies after a prescription is submitted? I think those numbers are pretty low. It can all be brought up with the proper training. I worked closely with the DuoConnect nurse case manager to make sure all the pivotal information needed was in the notes I was submitting. I have a check list with the criteria needed for approval. Prior to submitting any forms I go through the notes to make sure everything needed is documented if not Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C will addend the notes as necessary.  We talk at least once a week by phone, but she is able to send me e-mails now on an as needed basis which makes things run much smoother. Dayanna Ocegueda Thank you for this feedback.  We are really interested in learning more about this communication.  Can you expand more on your communication with the DuoConnect nurse case manager?  How often do you speak with her/him?  Do you setup specific time to talk with them?  Any advice on how you have adjusted to make this communication better? Very likely correct, but this is something that can be rectified by having the 'Facilitator' advocate followup with the involved Movement Disorder/Parkinson's Clinic.  I think that 50% of patients never starting to open seems quite high based on our experience here at Vanderbilt.  Again, I never encounter those patients who might see one of our movement disorder neurologists and start the process, but then halt it before seeing me for their tube placement consult.  I would say that pretty much 100% of patients that actually get the tube at least start the therapy.  I would estimate that I have removed about 10% of the tubes that I have put in for various reasons, including patient dissatisfaction with either the tube itself or just lack of Duopa efficacy.  The average time to PEG-J procedure/% of patients who do not start Duopa is not surprising to me based on my own experiences.

Regarding completeness of chart notes, I would guess this is less common at academic centers where we (mostly) have adequate staffing and resources to help with the insurance approval process. My guess is you are more likely to see incomplete documentation in community based practices where there may not be as much support staff or familiarity with prescribing specialty medications. I would also guess that practices that have an NP/PA involved in the Duopa prescribing process are more likely to submit complete documentation.  That number is quite low. I don't know if the explanation of the procedure to patients and family affects the notes but the key is making sure there is good communication between proceduralist and MDS, making sure all detailed factors are written based on PD criteria for Duopa. Patients need to understand that the criteria for Duopa are affecting their QOL and we need to send patients to the proceduralists only when the patient is comfortable moving forward.  @all Great insights into your process and workflow for submitting Duopa patient enrollment forms.  My question to all on the Neurologist side: Does Duopa require extra work for chart notes as compared to other advanced therapies after a prescription is submitted?  The 33% would be something you can work on. Perhaps you can provide especially new centers with a 'script' they can convert into a EMR smartphrase forcing them to touch upon all necessary points in their documentation.  This is true. Dayanna Ocegueda keeps me in line and makes sure the notes are complete! I think those numbers are pretty low. It can all be brought up with the proper training. I worked closely with the DuoConnect nurse case manager to make sure all the pivotal information needed was in the notes I was submitting. I have a check list with the criteria needed for approval. Prior to submitting any forms I go through the notes to make sure everything needed is documented if not Leonard Verhagen Jessica Karl will addend the notes as necessary. agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C . It is perhaps an idea to provide newer sites with examples of the exact wording needed to get approval so that newer sites don't get delayed or rejected. Sites could make that into smart phrases so the documentation is even easier. You can include in such examples also a smart phrase that would help remind sites to check labs from time to time. @all Great insights into your process and workflow for submitting Duopa patient enrollment forms.  My question to all on the Neurologist side: Does Duopa require extra work for chart notes as compared to other advanced therapies after a prescription is submitted?