I'd agree with 30-40% of patients not enrolling. The primary concerns being the fear about managing the tube itself or the tube becoming dislodged or clogged. We have established a process where our patients here at NMH can reach out to us 24/7 with tube related issues and can get an appointment in clinic within 24-48 hours to help troubleshoot the tube or arrange tube replacement endoscopically within a week as an outpatient as long as there is not another reason for admission.  I can personally attest to the degree of attention that Carolyn Taylor and Avram Fraint contribute to this patient population, and have seen more patients signing up for these tubes now with their care protocol and attention to detail as well. Absolutely we recommend all patients considering Duopa speak with a current Duopa patient, and sometimes even recommend the care partner speak to another care partner. Fear of the tube getting dislodged due to loved ones becoming confused at night and pulling out the tube or getting caught on as doors, etc. Also agree with the dexterity being an issue they are concerned with in order to work the pump or troubleshoot it when it alarms. The patient support program has been helpful with mitigating these fears and also we try our best to take the "guess work" out of troubleshooting the tube at home and have the families call or page afterhours to  help with tube related issues. The added support gives them piece of mind, but there are still some that have those remaining fears. Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis I think about 20% of ours never start treatment.  They are all taking L-DOPA and have a good response so it is not the drug,   If they decide against it is is because they don't want to deal with the pump / tube. Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Given that Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC thinks that nearly half of our patients enrolled never start treatment, I suspect this is also the case at other centers.  We also I only recommend it with certain patients who are hesitant or have questions about living with the tube itself. Douglas Varian we have certain patients with the Duopa reach out to patients who are interested in speaking with someone who has already undergone the procedure. We tend to not utilize the mentor line. 30-40%  1) Permanent tubing/patient fear, 2) lack of a care partner Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Maybe about half of patient. We have a lot of patients who sign the consent, but never follow through.  Douglas Varian we have certain patients with the Duopa reach out to patients who are interested in speaking with someone who has already undergone the procedure. We tend to not utilize the mentor line. Great insights Leonard Verhagen Do you suggest to all potential Duopa patients to talk with other Duopa patients via the Duopa mentor line or only certain patients/caregivers that may be hesitant?  I would be curious if others reinforce speaking with other Duopa patients as well, and what their process is in facilitating this conversation @all ~20%. I agree that the reason is lack of adequate family support, and also going through a procedure.  I think lack of family and close support systems is one of the big reasons why patients don't get to this treatment. I also think that when DBS teams are aggressive in marketing and doing procedures, you will see a shift towards the DBS spectrum.  I think there could be some marketing strategies that could be deployed by Abbvie as a corporate entity to help patients and their families understand duopa.  Not sure, since I never see patietns who change their mind about enrolling after they see Tom Davis (or one of our other neurologists) but before seeing me or my NPs.  I would guess similar to my own experience, 40-50%?  The #1 reason in my experience is lack of social/familial support. Secondarily many patients don't proceed due to fears about having a procedure. Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Absolutely we recommend all patients considering Duopa speak with a current Duopa patient, and sometimes even recommend the care partner speak to another care partner. Great insights Leonard Verhagen Do you suggest to all potential Duopa patients to talk with other Duopa patients via the Duopa mentor line or only certain patients/caregivers that may be hesitant?  I would be curious if others reinforce speaking with other Duopa patients as well, and what their process is in facilitating this conversation @all Since we have a robust group of patients having had the procedure, I ask my Duopa patients, if they are comfortable to share their experience with prospective patients that may have interest.   . Nothing is better for a patient to go over how the process goes with their intended surgeon and MDS. Getting experience from another patient from a different center doesn't do justice for explaining what our patient may go through. Great insights Leonard Verhagen Do you suggest to all potential Duopa patients to talk with other Duopa patients via the Duopa mentor line or only certain patients/caregivers that may be hesitant?  I would be curious if others reinforce speaking with other Duopa patients as well, and what their process is in facilitating this conversation @all Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC Tom Davis  Great insights Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD Do you suggest to all potential Duopa patients to talk with other Duopa patients via the Duopa mentor line or only certain patients/caregivers that may be hesitant?  I would be curious if others reinforce speaking with other Duopa patients as well, and what their process is in facilitating this conversation @all Probably 40%. 
We all will have had experience with going through the process of educating the patient, providing literature, information, filling out forms, and communicating with colleagues, only to find out that the patient in the end decides not to go through with it. As a result we have become more insightful into whether a patient is serious about wanting this therapy or not. 
Centers with less experience do not have that same learning experience and may be guided by their enthusiasm and start the process even if patients are not 100% on board. 100% agree with Jessica Karl and others who mention lack of care partners as a main problem. And sometimes IF patient have a care partner, it is that care partner who does not feel he/she can deal with the technology, who will pull the plug. Hearing form other patients is often very helpful for patients who are in doubt. Probably 40%. 
We all will have had experience with going through the process of educating the patient, providing literature, information, filling out forms, and communicating with colleagues, only to find out that the patient in the end decides not to go through with it. As a result we have become more insightful into whether a patient is serious about wanting this therapy or not. 
Centers with less experience do not have that same learning experience and may be guided by their enthusiasm and start the process even if patients are not 100% on board. 100% agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and others who mention lack of care partners as a main problem. And sometimes IF patient have a care partner, it is that care partner who does not feel he/she can deal with the technology, who will pull the plug. Hearing form other patients is often very helpful for patients who are in doubt. 