Roughly 30-60 days based on patient's willingness and scheduling for the procedure/admission. Oour patient's are hospitalized overnight after the procedure for monitoring which also adds to the patient coordination as well. This has also been challenging during COVID given fear of hospitalization/exposure vs hospital bed availability for "elective" procedures.  I would estimate 2-3 months.  Still,  much quicker than DBS. I would estimate 2-3 months. I would guess that it varies similarly to what we see at Northwestern - anywhere from 30 days to 6 months.  I would say at centers that regularly prescribe Duopa 1-3 months. At centers that do not regularly prescribe much longer, 3-6 months.  From the time we get "cleared to ship"? It can take about 4-6 weeks, but that depends on the GI's availability.  To clarify, when you say 'Clearance of a Duopa Script' does that mean that the preauthorization process is complete in writing? 
If that is the case, if yes , then around  ~ 4 weeks.  Really not sure on this one.  Assuming other practices face the same challenges with patient readiness that I do, I would guess at least several months.  Brad Durbin Douglas Varian Kendall Cook Eric Lynch  Can you Clarify "Looking at data across the US.." Is there some data I'm missing you have to share or other information for us to analyze? 

I agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C that there is a bias between centers with regularity of doing Duopa procedures vs those not as frequent. I think 30-45 days is what we see in our region.  Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. Good question, you are not missing any data.  The question implies if you are looking at the data across the country, what would be your estimate for this time frame.  Has your time frame stayed fairly steady over the years or increased/decreased? Brad Durbin Douglas Varian Kendall Cook Eric Lynch  Can you Clarify "Looking at data across the US.." Is there some data I'm missing you have to share or other information for us to analyze? 

I agree with Jessica Karl that there is a bias between centers with regularity of doing Duopa procedures vs those not as frequent. I think 30-45 days is what we see in our region. I guess the point of the question is for us to guess what the average time is WITHOUT looking at the dat?
In that case I agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and oether that the average will be a bit longer for non-experienced centers, up to 6 months. 