The largest issue has been the ability to schedule "elective" admission for tube placement. I have been able to get around this since I admit them post-procedure for observation which is allowed and that has been able to keep our work-flow relatively steady without too much obstruction, but patient's fears regarding hospitalization play a part in this as well.  This is very interesting. In my experience, patient who opt for DBS over Duopa are much more likely to go ahead with surgery now rather than wait until the pandemic is over.  I think the DBS patients are generally less concerned about risk. It has not changed the way I talk to patients.  I think elective surgery is  no more risky than going to the grocery store.  I have not changed the way I talk to patients about the procedures, but I do warn them that the typical timeline is likely to be prolonged during the pandemic.  I agree with the previous comments and have not changed my practices.  I do assure people who may be hesitant that precautions are in place.  Every patient is covid tested prior to procedures.  I haven't changed my view of elective procedures but certain patients have voiced their concern and preference to wait until the pandemic is over/calmed down.  I think it just depends on the patient and what they are comfortable with.  We have a mandate with the second bad phase of the virus, to not schedule elective procedures that could potentially lead to a hosptial observation. So far we have not had any patients with the Duopa Tube placement who may have needed immediate post procedure hospitalization. 

Yes we do counsel them regarding the hospital COVID-19 POLICIES and they also have to get a COVID-19 PCR test within 72 hours of the procedure, that needs to be resulted &lt;72 hours. Just like if you are trying to hop on a plane to go to Hawaii from the northwest or the west coast!  Not really... Patients are required to undergo preoperative COVID-19 testing 72 hours before the procedure, and they are then asked to quarantine during the intervening days between the test and the procedure.  I now ask my patients on the morning of any operation or procedure whether they have been in contact with a COVID-19 patient or if they have had any symptoms over the past few days.  Fortunately, the rate of nosocomial spread seems to be virtually nil, so I try to assure patients that the chances of them actually getting Covid from a brief outpatient visit to the hospital is quite low.  I haven't changed my view of elective procedures, I would be interested to hear what Harold Boutte, Jr, MD 's view is. 

I have had several patients interested in Duopa who have suggested delaying the PEG-J to a later date, sometimes for fear about the pandemic, and sometimes for personal reasons. I have counseled these patients that in the past, elective procedures have been cancelled or delayed at NM, so this should be taken into consideration as a potential cause for delays in the future, even when the patient decides they are ready.  Not much has changed as patients can get COVID testing prior to surgery. I have asked patients to be patient in the process as the guidelines are ever changing with elective procedures. There are those that we recommend get surgery done sooner based on their medical condition, however others we have been guiding them to think about after the vaccinations are more readily available if they are nervous about the pandemic.  There are patients who prefer not to have the procedure done at this time because of the pandemic. I think that is reasonable. Of course we tell them that Rush has all kinds of safety measures in place, including COVID testing. From a provider perspective I have not changed how I discuss these procedures 