From a GI perspective, we have an advanced team here that helps place/manage tubes and this was a tube type that we were able to adopt into our program thanks to the support from Neurology and also the Abbvie Nurse Educators who helped further train us as providers and help with our patients knowledge base as well.  The most important aspect of getting started is having a surgical partner who has a real interest in the program.   We are very fortunate at Vanderbilt to have excellent surgical support so the challenges of the tube for neurology are very minimal.  Outside problems with the tube, Duopa is very simple. All movement disorders neurologist should be experts in adjusting L-DOPA so all there is to learn about Duopa is the pump and that is why there are "cheat sheets".  Dayanna Ocegueda Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD Avram Fraint, MD, MS Tom Davis What is the process when you need to fill or backfill a role?  Who will get that individual up to speed with the Duopa process?  When I arrived at Northwestern there was a process already in place. Since I took over the advanced therapeutics program we have continued the same workflow.  Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. is the one who identified the initial need in our area for Duopa for Parkinson's patients. Once I was brought on board, our nurse leads did a lot of the work to establish the work flow.  They talk frequently to each other to ensure the process is smooth.  In addition the neuro nurse manager has my direct contact to quickly make me aware of any tube issues that may come up after insertion.  At Rush University Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD started/drove the process. He was involved in the clinical trial. Once the process was started our entire team (Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD , Dayanna Ocegueda, myself, GI team) worked together to perfect the process.  I agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD. At this point I feel our numbers are pretty well represented. We have a good process in place to keep things running smooth. Everyone does their role well.  I provide the training and I ask for help from the DuoConnect nurse. Dayanna Ocegueda Carolyn Taylor Jessica Karl Leonard Verhagen Avram Fraint Tom Davis What is the process when you need to fill or backfill a role?  Who will get that individual up to speed with the Duopa process? This was initiated by our Movement disorder team and once they talked to me , I felt that this was a very worthy procedure for helping patients with refractory Parkinson's. We had a meeting followed by discussion of the logistics and then we got inserviced on the tube and also got connected with Abbvie Rep and clinical support. Now we are on our own doing procedures without anybody's support from Abbvie, Inc.  I believe that the initial development was champion by Tom Davis.  I was asked by their group to join as the proceduralist, and we all had a day-long meeting and training session at a local hotel back in 2015, I think.  Adding in our surgical nurse practitioners was a fairly natural transition, and they really are the glue that holds my practice together.  I was also lucky enough to identify a first, and then a second, interventional radiologist who have had family members with Parkinson's disease and have been very invested in helping me with repositioning J-tubes under fluoroscopy, as long as the G-tube is intact.  The NPs in neurology, surgery, and interventional radiology do a lot of the initial communications as they tend to be a bit more available on a daily basis, and it really helps keep the whole system flowing nicely.  Our previous physician overseeing the advanced therapeutics program at Northwestern helped develop the workflow - based on a similar workflow model in our DBS program.  On the neuro side I provide the training, and I have also utilized our Abbvie rep to help with education about Duopa and the process in general Dayanna Ocegueda Carolyn Taylor Jessica Karl Leonard Verhagen Avram Fraint Tom Davis What is the process when you need to fill or backfill a role?  Who will get that individual up to speed with the Duopa process? We had a need for advanced therapies for our patients. Abbvie reps helped foster such relationships between my group and surgeons. I can say our team was fortunate being in private practice to partner closely with GI surgeons and interventional radiologists who were willing to be available for this specific patient population.  @jessica is correct, as usual. I was site PI for the pivotal study and from there transitioned to commercial use. The crucial step was to find a GI specialist interested in collaborating and we found him relatively quickly. He has been the only one performing tube placements and his team is responsive to our requests and our patients. For example, patients can send them a picture of their tube site if they are concerned about leakage, discoloration etcetera. As Tom Davis mentioned, Duopa is not difficult and if there is a good 'tube partner' the process is smooth. The next big help was Tony, AbbVie's nurse specialist. He coordinated our team form the beginning until we were more or less on autopilot. Finally Dayanna Ocegueda our MA has become the 'mobilizer' who communicates with AbbVie, GI, Neurology and patient. She requires cloning.  Dayanna Ocegueda (mobilizer extraordinaire)  knows the process best and she has left detailed instructions for our nurse for when she is not in the office. And we will lean more on our account executive and Duoconnect when she is out. I provide the training and I ask for help from the DuoConnect nurse.