interacting through both email and EPIC when issues are occurring. Carolyn Taylor is incredibly responsive!  The neurologists and NP see each other frequently in clinic.  We communicate with the surgical team through the electronic medical record.  Patients are often referred to my by other movement disorders neurologists in our practice. After I evaluate them I then forward their name to Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC via EPIC and she then takes care of insurance approval, consultation with the proceduralist, and titration visit. She and I are in touch frequently during the initial phases of Duopa initiation.  Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. Once a patient is referred to my clinic for Tube placement and deemed a good candidate, our nurses really do all the work behind the scenes to get them scheduled. They talk on email, test or phone.  About once a year we all try to go out to dinner together to have a more in depth conversation about how things are going and discuss any improvements that need to be made,  Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD or myself will see a patient that is either in our practice already or referred by another movement disorder neurologist in our group. We will then involve Dayanna Ocegueda who will start the process of submitting for insurance approval.  We interact through epic or verbally. The occur intermittently, not at regular times. Leonard Verhagen or myself will see a patient that is either in our practice already or referred by another movement disorder neurologist in our group. We will then involve Dayanna Ocegueda who will start the process of submitting for insurance approval. We usually interact through Epic. Prior to the PEG J procedure we are notified.  The interaction between the IR team, Our Clinic Team and the Movement disorder Nursing team and support team is excellent. our goal is simple: to provide efficient care that is patient focused in an expeditious fashion. This has worked so far. 
The Movement disorder team really likes my Clinic Facilitator.  Unless Tom Davis is holding out on me, we have not had any group meetings since the program started.  I agree with him that we largely communicate via the electronic medical record, and again, most of that initial contact is done amongst the nurse practitioners in neurology, surgery, and interventional radiology.  Every now and then, if there is an extenuating circumstance, I will either call my interventional radiologist or Tom Davis directly to discuss a particular patient.  Our team interacts through email/Epic. We generally have several touchpoints throughout the Duopa process 1) when a patient is referred, 2) when the Duopa script is approved and pt is ready to schedule the GI consult, 3) when the PEG-J procedure/Duopa titration is scheduled, 4) after the titration  my answer is consistent with Caitlin Houghton, MD. We do not meet that often as our staff does the majority of communication. I think once or twice a year is sufficient but if there are issues with patient selection, changes in procedure methods or tubing, then meeting even more frequent is appropriate.  The critical team members in neurology are in daily contact about all clinical issues. Once a patient of mine shows solid interest in Duopa, I give them detailed information, hand out brochures, connect them with a patient if they like and ask them to think about it and call me back after discussing it with their support at home, once they are sure they want to move forward. I already have them sign the form, which is kept by Dayanna Ocegueda our 'Mobilizer', until the patient gets back to us, so we don't have to collect a signature at a later time. Since Dayanna Ocegueda sees all my phone calls and MyCharts she is mde aware of the patient's decision before I do and moves the process forward. Communications between neurology and GI occur through Epic. On the day of titration in clinic, the GI PA is kind enough to stop by in clinic to check on the stoma. 