Nothing. The Nurse educators were amazing and even cam to NMH to give me a tutorial on the tube itself as a re-fresher course before I started placing more of these tubes in my practice.  We were fortunate to have excellent surgical support from the beginning so I am not sure I would have done anything differently.  I think more formal training in managing the pump would have been useful.  I think it went quite smooth at Rush University but I owe that to Dayanna Ocegueda for being extremely organized. Our Duopa RN (Tony D.) at the time was also very helpful it coordinating the care between GI and movement.  I wouldn't have done anything different. With the help from the Abbvie team we were able to make a smooth transition.  We are blessed with a very good well oiled machine between the Nurse coordinator at the Movement Disorder Clinic and my scheduling MA. I just got off the phone and talked to Pam Salas and asked her how are things going from IR's end,  and she said one word 'Fabulous' . There are certain situations where the patient post placement and post initiation of treatment have some tube malfunction issues, either having a hard time flushing or getting a 'high pressure' signal, then they call 'Duopa Connect' and the 'Nurse Coordinator' at the Movement disorder clinic. They in turn let us know and we get on the 'tube Maintainenance and Check' either same day or next day.  I probably would have identified one or more colleagues in interventional radiology sooner.  Early on, when patients had J tubes that became displaced, I was taking the back to the operating room to reposition the tubes endoscopically.  This not only became a little challenging for me from a scheduling standpoint, but it also resulted in an additional anesthetic and OR time for the patient.  Having the J-tube was repositioned under fluoroscopy in the IR suite with no anesthesia has been a real benefit.  I'm overall happy with our Treatment team. We've had smooth transitions between 3 different GI docs and 2 different neurologists so I think the workflow is pretty successful.  I don't think we would be doing much differently but it has been good to have a person or our point of contact who can have communication with the Gi team's point of contact. The relationship between proceduralist and MDS is key in that they can pick up the phone, text, email, etc to discuss cases in a timely manner. If there were case conferences monthly that may help as well.  I agree with both comments that Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C made 