Also did not know this existed but would be very useful.  I think the resource is a helpful one in the sense that it provides very general information regarding the tube without going into detail about how the tube is placed or who is placing it so as to avoid confusion if it is GI vs Surgery vs IR who is placing the tube and their protocols. If this is meant to be the "Tube Guide" then post-tube care and standard language for that which was included on the Placement also need to be provided here as well as the flow sheet for how it works for the patient to see Neurology, get approved, get tube placed, post-tube care, and then resources such as DuoConnect and titration.

This pamphlet has more risks of the procedure and potential complications than actual information on his the tube or pump functions and the steps needed to get there. Harold Boutte, Jr Richard A Pierce Sanjiv Parikh if you are familiar with this piece, how have you used it and is it beneficial?  Do you have any changes that would make this more useful to you and your team? I think it is best if the proceduralist manages the tube and the neurologist manages the medicine.  Neurologist should determine if the patient is a candidate for Duopa and Proceduralist should determine if the patient is a candidate for the tube.  Patient needs to be a candidate for both.  Proceduralist does not need to be discussing expectations of Duopa with the patient only potential complications of the tube and how they might be handled.  Harold Boutte, Jr, MD Richard A Pierce, MD, PhD Sanjiv Parikh, MD, DRM if you are familiar with this piece, how have you used it and is it beneficial?  Do you have any changes that would make this more useful to you and your team?  I have not seen this resource.  I think this is something that is beneficial for the patients especially showing the carrying cases.  I get asked that a lot.  I may give it to the patient but not sure it would be instrumental in my discussion.  I have not seen this resource.  I did not know this existed.  This is terrific, we would love to see all our patients get access to this before we do our consultation.  I was not aware of this resource - curious if our GI team finds it helpful.  Very nice brochure. It can assist as part of the discussion with the GI doc, provide confidence in the procedure, and reinforce what was already discussed by the MDS  Agree with Tom Davis that by the time the patient comes to the proceduralist they should not require any more convincing that Duopa works and why. 
From an information point of view, the brochure does not seem focused. There is a bit of information on why the therapy is good (but not enough to convince anyone) and there is a bit of information on the procedure, but not enough to be very helpful in telling the patient what to expect. 