I would argue that the Nurse Educator plays an important role in the team list and should play a standard role to facilitate Abbvie communication between patient and providers.  At Vanderbilt all of the movement providers inject botulinum toxin, and manage patients on DBS, Duopa, and apomorphine. All patients who are candidates for both Duopa and DBS are offered both therapies.  I think patients are more willing to consider "advanced therapies" if they can keep the provider with whom they have a long term relationship.  NP/PA s in movement disorders and general surgery have been very helpful in managing the urgencies that can occur with advanced therapies.  Everyone on our team is reflected on the resource, though in some situations patients may wish to continue with their initial movement disorders specialist rather than see me exclusively.  I am on the proceduralist side.  Once we get a consult for Duopa PEG-J.  My NP and GI lab scheduler are in frequent contact with both our AbbVie rep and the neurologist clinic Nurse Manager to arrange scheduling once medications are approved.  Aside from the members already listed I would also include the Duopa team RN who helps the neurology provider in clinic with the titration process.  I agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C. Our Abbvie nurse educator is part of every titration visit.  In our setting, the Movement Disorder Clinic contacts my IR Clinic scheduler and sends a consult note to substantiate it. 
We then see the patient in the Clinic , where we complete the preprocedure evaluation and clinical exam. We also review any pertinent imaging and if need be request more imaging to ensure 'safe window' for the procedure. We only see patients in the clinic who have preauthorization for Duopa Treatment. The patient then gets scheduled usually in a 1 to 2 week time frame with anesthesia in the IR suite. We do our best to accomodate patient and Movement Disorder requests, i.e : we have successfully performed the procedure on a patient seen in the Clinic on a tuesday morning and procedure performed same friday morning.  I will echo Tom Davis and Caitlin Houghton, MD.  I fortunately have 2 excellent nurse practitioners in my surgical clinic who see all of the AbbVie patients.  If the patients are particularly complex in terms of prior abdominal surgery, I will generally see them as well in clinic prior to their tube placement.  However, if they have had minimal or no prior abdominal surgery and seem relatively straightforward, the NPs will just put them on my surgical schedule and I will meet the patient on the day of the procedure.

Postoperatively, the NPs also play an important role, as patients that have tube malfunctions will first come to the clinic to be evaluated by them.  They have all the necessary hardware in clinic so that they can replace connectors and reinsert J tubes that have pulled out to a small degree.  If the J-tube is pulled out a significant amount, the NPs will order a KUB, and then often refer the patient to our interventional radiologist, if needed.  At Northwestern, all Duopa patients are referred to a particular neurologist (Avram Fraint) to take over their management if they proceed with Duopa. Although Dr. Fraint takes over the care of Duopa patients, the referring movement disorders specialists do continue to be involved in decision making/answering questions about Duopa until the patient actually proceeds with the PEG-J procedure. The patient's established movement disorders specialist can often be critical in the patient's decision to actually move forward with Duopa.  Our neurology clinic runs similar to the treatment team roles. We have not seen the Duopa RN for years, and I think that is a shame that there is not additional services at certain centers. Patients require such a standardization.  This is interesting, thanks for the comment Tom Davis .  Regarding your comment about patients being more willing to consider "advanced therapies" if they can keep their provider.  Would you think patients that are referred from a General Neuro to a MDS are more reluctant to start an advanced therapy as they may not be as easily managed by their GN or provider they have a long term relationship with?  Would they be more comfortable if they knew that they were simply going to the movement disorder center to have the therapy completed and then return to their long standing physician? At Vanderbilt all of the movement providers inject botulinum toxin, and manage patients on DBS, Duopa, and apomorphine. All patients who are candidates for both Duopa and DBS are offered both therapies.  I think patients are more willing to consider "advanced therapies" if they can keep the provider with whom they have a long term relationship.  NP/PA s in movement disorders and general surgery have been very helpful in managing the urgencies that can occur with advanced therapies. During in-clinic titration I like to have the AbbVie nurse educator be part of the team.
At Rush, we have a different model than the one described by Tom Davis. Within our movement disorder practice patients are referred for Duopa mostly to Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and me. After they are stabilized they often stay with us, but some like the option of going back to their original provider and come and see us when there is a specific infusion issue. Some alternate visits between us and the original person. 