Completely agree with Avram. Carolyn works tirelessly with this patient population and does an excellent job communicating with their families and helping to get follow-up arranged seamlessly. We try and support as much as we can from a GI perspective with getting patients in for an evaluation and troubleshooting tube issues when they arise in quick manor to match the level of care that Carolyn and Avram provide. Thankfully Carolyn Taylor has lots of experience in this area and is the main reason (from the neurology side) our Duopa program runs so smoothly. Lack of experience with these tubes (or tubes in general) and also the lack of bandwidth to help accommodate these patients when issues arise. Thankfully AbbVie and the nurse educators have been incredibly supportive and have been present at my clinic visits and during tube placement/exchanges to help ensure optimal troubleshooting and functioning of the tube itself. It gives me piece of mind that I have solid support backing my clinical practice, but also instills in me a sense of personal confidence when placing and troubleshooting this technology. I have been more inclined to refer other colleagues to start placing these tubes as well because of this and have started to partner with some of our surgery colleagues (Dr. Ezra Teitelbaum) and our Radiology Colleagues (Heather Molina PA-C) as well who also help with these tube placements. @all When you speak with colleagues/peers who are not involved in Duopa Treatment Teams, what have you heard about why they have not formed or joined a team? Communication from the Neurology to Procedural side is key, but thankfully we have a great and efficient team!  Good surgical support is the key.  With it, Duopa is no more complicated than any other therapy.  Hi Carolyn.  This question is to Carolyn and others, does your Duopa team function any differently from other groups within your practice?  If so, how? I would say reasons for our success are 1) good communication between team members and 2) clear understanding of everyone's role in the Duopa start process. @all When you speak with colleagues/peers who are not involved in Duopa Treatment Teams, what have you heard about why they have not formed or joined a team?  Thankfully Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC has lots of experience in this area and is the main reason (from the neurology side) our Duopa program runs so smoothly.  From a surgical perspective providers may be concerned that their clinic may turn in to a tube management depot which is not the most rewarding.  However, In my experience, I find tube complications are fairly uncommon and those that do occur often the nurses can trouble shoot.  Also, I have EGD block time which is uncommon for most surgeons. This makes dealing with replacements and new implantation easier. @all When you speak with colleagues/peers who are not involved in Duopa Treatment Teams, what have you heard about why they have not formed or joined a team? Dayanna Ocegueda contributes most to the success from a neurology standpoint. We also have an excellent GI team who are extremely responsive. Often times tubes are replaced without neurology ever knowing there was an issue.  The communication between our neurology department, GI and DuoConnect contributes most to the success. Our nurse case manager is very good at communicating what is needed to speed up the process or when the patient is ready for the next step.  Transparency in Commuication, keep a 'llistening ear' for helping patients and keeping execution of logistics clear. 
This is a team approach game we play. so far it is working. I believe the critical piece is a willing service in IR wanting to partner with Movement disorder team in helping these patients.  Although all 3 disciplines (neurology, surgery, interventional radiology) work hand-in-hand, I like the fact that we have kept our duties quite compartmentalized.  My nurse practitioners and I are more than happy to deal with any and all problems that deal with the tube itself.  We are comfortable either fixing/replacing them ourselves, or directing them to interventional radiology as needed.  If a patient has a question about the medication itself, we immediately refer them to our excellent team of neurologists who (thankfully!) deal with all the medication adjustments and counseling.  I would say reasons for our success are 1) good communication between team members and 2) clear understanding of everyone's role in the Duopa start process.  The team that is most comparable to the Duopa team is the DBS team. There are many similarities in the workflow. The major difference is that there are more hurdles (neuropsych testing, sinemet study) for patients to be considered a candidate for DBS, so our DBS team meets monthly to review those cases. Otherwise we function and communicate similarly for Duopa and DBS referrals. Hi Carolyn.  This question is to Carolyn and others, does your Duopa team function any differently from other groups within your practice?  If so, how? I think we have our defined roles, and we are keeping to the particular criteria for patient candidacy. From the neurology perspective we are trying to only send qualified patients with advanced PD to the GI specialist for consultation. We do not want to refer patients unnecessarily to GI  Initially the Nurse Educator (Tony D) was an important reason we got the program running with him being the communicator between all different parties. Once we had all players identified Dayanna Ocegueda has taken over that role of 'mobilizer' and has the entire team on her speed dial. So communication remains the most important part of the process and reason for a smooth workflow. Our GI collaborator and his PAs has been tremendous. If patients are concerned about their stoma they send pictures to GI directly and get immediate responses.  My colleagues within our Movement Disorder group usually refer to Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and me because we also evaluate patients for other therapies such as DBS. That way patients get whatever is the most appropriate therapy. 
I am not sure why other Movement Disorder groups would not form 'teams'. Perhaps because they are more interested in DBS for fluctuators? @all When you speak with colleagues/peers who are not involved in Duopa Treatment Teams, what have you heard about why they have not formed or joined a team?