The Neuro Team has been great about providing these resources. Personally I would like to request these handouts for my clinical practice so I can review the Tube Care instructions with the patient as we have been giving them our own standard language for tube care, but would be helpful to provide a clear and unified message with the Abbvie materials they are given.  Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD thank you for this suggestion!  Please expand a little bit more on your this idea.  Are you thinking of something simple (a 1-pager or small card) you could hand out to patients?  Or something simple that you have for your team to reference at the office? Answer: Yes.  Comment: It would be good to have this slide in the office with the appropriate telephone numbers and websites Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD very helpful.  thank you! I was more thinking about a quick reference for office staff. As more people are getting involved with our expanding program, it would be good for everyone to have immediate access to the right person. @all please see Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD comments in this section in reference to a resource guide he would like for his staff (with much of the info shared on the attached slide) as they expand.  Would anyone else find something like this useful and does anyone else have any additional commentary?  We are aware.  Vaguely.  I do know about the nursing teams and patient support but don't know the details of how they work and how the patient's are contacted/made aware of these resources.  I agree this would be nice.  A brief description of the information available with that resource and the contact info/ website link would be helpful. 

I kind of like the idea of a patient directed card as well if these are resources they can initiate on their own. I was more thinking about a quick reference for office staff. As more people are getting involved with our expanding program, it would be good for everyone to have immediate access to the right person. I find these resources extremely useful.  I utilize some of the resources.  But not have used this routinely, however, the script is followed by the coordinating nurse.  Yes, I am aware of these resources and use them frequently.  I agree that would be a helpful resource, particularly for office staff who help make referrals for Duopa but may not be directly involved in the process.
Something similar for patients would also be useful (I think there may be some iteration of a resource Guide in their daily duopa book once they've already have the procedure done) @all please see Leonard Verhagen comments in this section in reference to a resource guide he would like for his staff (with much of the info shared on the attached slide) as they expand.  Would anyone else find something like this useful and does anyone else have any additional commentary? We have been aware of these resources. I think its good to have as training for those new to the group or a center that is beginning a Duopa program  It would be good to have this slide in the office with the appropriate telephone numbers and websites  I was more thinking about a quick reference for office staff. As more people are getting involved with our expanding program, it would be good for everyone to have immediate access to the right person. Leonard Verhagen thank you for this suggestion!  Please expand a little bit more on your this idea.  Are you thinking of something simple (a 1-pager or small card) you could hand out to patients?  Or something simple that you have for your team to reference at the office?