From the Duopa Workflow perspective, this is right on point. I have learned more about the optional patient support mechanisms through this Ad Board and know that the majority of these connections are made through Neurology, but this will certainly enhance my practice as well with re-iterating their availability and importance. The Nurse Educator role is vitally important.  Other than COVID related restrictions; in general I personally could do a better job of setting up team meetings between Neuro and GI so we can assess how to improve our efficiency with referral to procedure time @all Have you personally noticed improvements in the process and timing recently?  Secondly, any specific recommendations you might suggest to improve the experience? Since all  our providers use Duopa, we have at least one less step.  We do not refer them to the "Duopa person".  This is an accurate reflection of what I see with my patients.  Agree it is accurate  This accurately represents the patient experience at Rush University.  I haven't noticed any change but do not have any issues either! @all Have you personally noticed improvements in the process and timing recently?  Secondly, any specific recommendations you might suggest to improve the experience? This is an accurate description of the patient experience.  Overall , our patieints have loved the 'process' of getting their Duopa Gel Therapy initiated including the interventional procedure . Despite multiple  points of contact and communication, it is really amazing to see all the pieces of the puzzle come together for these patients ! That means everybody's heart is in the right place to help patients!  I think that overall, it is a very nice and smooth process.  The patients really appreciate the nurse ambassadors who come out to their homes to assist them with the tubes and troubleshoot any problems.  I think the patients also benefit from the fact that my nurse practitioners are in clinic 5 days a week so they can assist with tube problems even if I am not there.  I know that the neurology nurse practitioner is also available to assist patients 5 days a week.  I think this accurately describes the experience of our patients at NM.  It seems consistent with what we do at Hoag. I cannot imagine anything different outside of having part of the On-boarding to be a phone call immediately with the Nurse Ambassador. Having such early communication can be re-assuring.  @all Have you personally noticed improvements in the process and timing recently?  Secondly, any specific recommendations you might suggest to improve the experience?  Yes, this seems like a good representation.
I would like for the Duopa nurse ambassador to perhaps make another visit after 1 month, to make sure that good practices are being followed.  Have not noticed any changes. Please make sure the teams know what the latest requirements are as far as what we need to put in the chart, as these requirements seem to change a bit (for instance, what drugs have been tried and failed) @all Have you personally noticed improvements in the process and timing recently?  Secondly, any specific recommendations you might suggest to improve the experience?