The Nurse Educator program has been invaluable to me and my practice and rely on them for support and guidance. Ryan Trumpinski has been tremendous and an invaluable resource. My lack of knowledge of some of these programs have been completely supplanted by Carolyn, Avram, and Ryan as well which is the great part about working with such a knowledgeable team. This was very easy to adopt into my practice because these mechanisms were already in place.  The account executive and the website have been most helpful.  @all How can your local Duopa Representative be more helpful?  The nurse ambassador and peer mentor.  The nurse educator is extremely useful for the provider during titration visits. The patients find the nurse ambassador early on in their treatment. We typically use our own patients/care partners as resources for those interested in pursing Duopa.  Duoconnect for both myself and the patients.  Nurse ambassador and Duoconnect most useful  The most helpful resources from my view are the nurse ambassador and the peer mentor program. Since launching the nurse ambassador program my patients seem to have much more familiarity with the Duopa pump when they come in for their titration date. Although we have a number of Duopa patients at NM whom our potential Duopa patients can speak to, I like to use the peer ambassador program to get a better demographic match for potential Duopa patients (i.e., young male patient can speak with another young male, female patient can speak with another female)  where do i start Brad ??? Just kidding. The rep can be doing more community education programs at support groups (when things open up) but also support be allowed to educate patients and family at the visits without limitations based on how many people are there. @all How can your local Duopa Representative be more helpful? Account Exec for me personally but for patients it has to be the nurse ambassador  For patients Duoconnect and nurse ambassador as well as peer mentor are very useful
For me the account executive, nurse educator, have been very helpful 