it also depends on the Provider.  My case managers have all tried the product and my Nurse Practitioners have also.  My physicians state they are "too busy".  I would, as I would like to be honest when recommending to patients.  I think it's great to try to get the providers involved by having them try, they would more likely recommend the product.  I would say Glucerna may go over better with healthcare providers ( the meal replacement) because we often miss meals while we are working, having a meal replacement on hand may be a huge benefit.  Abbott should bring some and put in the employee refrigerate/cabinet in the break room.  I think if you can fill a need for providers and patients, then providers would be receptive. I agree with Ashlyn Smith, PA that if the samples are sent to the office, they will most likely go to the patients. Having the rep there in person to specify the samples are for providers to use (and preferably on a day when lunch is not provided) would fill a need for busy providers - which would be a helpful testimonial when recommending it for patients who have the same need.  I think most would at least want to taste it prior to recommending it to patients.  If an office is shipped or given a box of samples, they would most like assume it is for patients only. If there were a meeting with clinicians (eg, a lunch program or a promotional meeting, I always recommend that samples are accessible for clinicians to try! 100% think that helps for clinicians to recommend the product.  My staff and I would be interested but I think for most busy clinicians who are just trying to keep there heads above water, this would be a low priority unless a representative was there. Thanks so much for your comments Ashlyn Smith . If samples of Glucerna and/or Ensure were sent to HCP's  for the sole purpose of them trying the products (not marked as samples for patients), would you or your staff be interested in trying them? This would be outside of a lunch program or promotional meeting I think most would that are interested and passionate about nutrition  Thanks so much for your comments Ashlyn Smith, PA . If samples of Glucerna and/or Ensure were sent to HCP's  for the sole purpose of them trying the products (not marked as samples for patients), would you or your staff be interested in trying them? This would be outside of a lunch program or promotional meeting Answer: No.  Comment: If an office is shipped or given a box of samples, they would most like assume it is for patients only. If there were a meeting with clinicians (eg, a lunch program or a promotional meeting, I always recommend that samples are accessible for clinicians to try! 100% think that helps for clinicians to recommend the product. Thanks so much! My staff and I would be interested but I think for most busy clinicians who are just trying to keep there heads above water, this would be a low priority unless a representative was there.