The kit is put together quite well .  Coupons for future trips to the store.    None that I can think of currently.  I would ask for referrals  on the welcome letter and have spaces on the survey to include names/emails of 5 other NPs/PAs  I think there should be extra coupons that they can pass on to their friends and family to challenge them to feel better and stay healthier.  A link to a site with suggested uses, the recipes we talked about in earlier sessions, the evidence-based resources etc. Perhaps a professional page and a separate one for patients.

I know it is generous to offer free product, however from a marketing standpoint, over the years, I have seen various companies include a thermal carrier or travel pouch for their products. I would envision for busy providers who can't take time for lunch or need something to sustain them during their long days, having a small soft-sided thermal carrier (with the Abbott Logo) that would fit into a purse, bag or coat pocket (and possibly include a re-usable cold pack) would be a time-saver so they don't have to take more time to forage for food or settle for less healthy options.  Just a thought!  Please see previous comment regarding one free 'Try before you buy' and an additional enticement to complete the survey.  coupons, recipes to enhance the use of glucerna  I like it and I think once again I love the idea of text message reminders that could also remind the patient to exercise.. Sort of approach it as an overall wellness app.  -Variety of flavors
-Recipe ideas  I think it is pretty comprehensive. The only thing I might consider adding is a single page to take back to their clinician with questions, barriers, and successes.  I would love the Ensure Max Protein and agree with Ashlyn- meal ideas, snack ideas, other sources of protein through food, etc  See previous recommendation. 

I prefer to form my own judgement and feel a rep is biased.  I understand their job is to sell but if I think the product has value I will use it.  Either way I am likely to sign up for a kit.  Just from my personal perspective I look at my email very frequently and I like free things. So with that in mind if the email stress ed that there was no obligation to purchase and it did not require a credit card I would sign up.  I agree, we receive too many emails already.
Please see my previous comments of how a rep can assist with the provider kit.  I can take time with the emails and they are flexible to fit my schedule  Again, we get so many email and mail request that it often becomes white noise and may be perceived as spam. It would increase utilization to have an in-person delivery to briefly explain the kit and purpose, to address any initial questions, and to be a point of contact for future questions.  We all get so many emails throughout the day. If an email is not from an individual that I recognize or have a compelling subject line, I will often delete it without reading it. To prevent that, I would recommend either a quick in person heads up from the local rep to look out for an email with details (vs a sit down in person demo of the kit) or have the email come directly from someone that the clinician knows. @all For those who would only sign up for the patient-kit via a face-to-face visit, is there anything that could be done to improve the e-mail communication that would make it more useful or in tune with your needs? 
Because of your time constraints, are there specific circumstances in which the e mail sign up might be more time efficient than an in-person meeting with a rep? Your thoughts are greatly appreciated! I get so many emails and am usually so busy a face to face meeting would be more effective  @all For those who would only sign up for the patient-kit via a face-to-face visit, is there anything that could be done to improve the e-mail communication that would make it more useful or in tune with your needs? 
Because of your time constraints, are there specific circumstances in which the e mail sign up might be more time efficient than an in-person meeting with a rep? Your thoughts are greatly appreciated!  Thanks so much for your thoughtful comments Ashlyn Smith, PA ! We all get so many emails throughout the day. If an email is not from an individual that I recognize or have a compelling subject line, I will often delete it without reading it. To prevent that, I would recommend either a quick in person heads up from the local rep to look out for an email with details (vs a sit down in person demo of the kit) or have the email come directly from someone that the clinician knows.

If I reinforce the importance of using this product after the trial there is a higher likelihood of adherence.  It all depends on how they like the taste, how much it costs them when they go to purchase it and how the product makes them feel.  My best answer is it all depends.  Depends on availability at there local stores where they shop, cost and economic status.  I think the biggest obstacle may be cost, so anything that can alleviate that burden would be helpful.
Success may be in the 'eyes of the beholder' and their perceived benefit, so any way to track that may help to encourage continued use. It could be a protein tracker, the Dietician on the website for education, a touch-point follow up contact via mail/email/text - just some thoughts.  depends if they like the flavor and the cost is doable.  As we have seen with prescriptions, only about half of them are actually filled at the pharmacy and even fewer are actually taken. There are many reasons to this, including cost, patient motivation, proper instruction/education etc. There are many factors that make it hard to say yes or no to this question.  Depends on if they liked the taste and could afford it 

The patient not only get the instructions for use,  tool for logging fingersticks but a few free needles for the pen.  They act like they hit the jackpot.  I have never used starter kits with patient.  Yes any type of kits are great.  To me a kit represents that it contains everything in it to make you successful.  I believe it's a receipt for success.  However they have to be message to the patient the right way.  It does depend on the product and very patient-dependent.  A starter kit allows the patient to get comfortable with the use of the product and allows them to see what they need for daily use because it is all right there for them.  Depends on the product and the patient but in general I think they help with success, at least initially. Follow-through and long term success is always a challenge. Perhaps it would be helpful to have the patients include their information and there could be a touch point at 3 and 6 months later from Abbott.  Depends on the patient 

I think it is important for the NP/PA to understand what the product tastes like and understand the contents of the patient Kit so they can explain this educational material in depth with the patient.  I want to be able to speak from experience and if it doesn't taste good or work well, I would hesitate to recommend.  Absolutely! It is very important to try a product before recommending to patients.  I feel it adds more credibility to getting the patient's buy-in to trying it.  It would even help it I shop for the product and know more about cost and using the coupons.  Yes I would prefer small size just to see if I like it. @all when you try a product (as an HCP), would you prefer it in a smaller sample size (less waste if just sampling)? Or, would you prefer to try it in the standard size? I think it adds to the providers understanding of the product, its use, what they liked about it and recommendations for how they used it or how the patient can best utilize it. I think patients appreciate hearing if it is a product you would trust to use yourself.  I agree, a variety of flavors would enhance continued use Absolutely! Palate fatigue is an issue that often comes up when anyone (providers/patients) are following a dietary program. If more options were available, I would want to know to include this in the nutrition discussion and alert patients of the change. I think it is crucial for us to know what we recommending to our patients.  I think a smaller sample would be perfect. @all when you try a product (as an HCP), would you prefer it in a smaller sample size (less waste if just sampling)? Or, would you prefer to try it in the standard size? Yes I would want to know about other options available. I would definitely like to know. I think patients would love something not creamy and more like juice if that is possible. In general, it would help a clinician "buy into" a product and be able to speak to satiety and taste if they have tried it. However, it is not essential because we recommend intervention that we have not tried all the time (medications, weight loss programs, etc).  Absolutely! Palate fatigue is an issue that often comes up when anyone (providers/patients) are following a dietary program. If more options were available, I would want to know to include this in the nutrition discussion and alert patients of the change. @all would you want to be alerted when new flavors become available? Not necessarily as samples, but to have a head's up as it might be beneficial in terms of flavor preferences for patients etc. I believe HCPs would prefer a full size to assess the full experience (satiety, etc). If that is not possible, a small sample to assess taste/texture would be ok. @all when you try a product (as an HCP), would you prefer it in a smaller sample size (less waste if just sampling)? Or, would you prefer to try it in the standard size? I think we should know how something tastes and be able to give our personal feedback to patients about that  I would definitely like to know. I think patients would love something not creamy and more like juice if that is possible. @all would you want to be alerted when new flavors become available? Not necessarily as samples, but to have a head's up as it might be beneficial in terms of flavor preferences for patients etc. Patients have commented to me that they don't like the creamy taste of the chocolate/strawberry/vanilla products. With Americans liking sweetened beverages so much maybe that would be an option. Great observation about the juice-like product Maria Lena Walls .Are you suggestions people might prefer the consistency of a juice beverage? Or simply as an additional choice? Very interested in your comments. @all would you want to be alerted when new flavors become available? Not necessarily as samples, but to have a head's up as it might be beneficial in terms of flavor preferences for patients etc.  Great point about palate fatigue Ashlyn Smith, PA ! I agree that this type of information can be very helpful. Absolutely! Palate fatigue is an issue that often comes up when anyone (providers/patients) are following a dietary program. If more options were available, I would want to know to include this in the nutrition discussion and alert patients of the change. Great observation about the juice-like product Maria Lena Walls, NP .Are you suggestions people might prefer the consistency of a juice beverage? Or simply as an additional choice? Very interested in your comments. I would definitely like to know. I think patients would love something not creamy and more like juice if that is possible. @all when you try a product (as an HCP), would you prefer it in a smaller sample size (less waste if just sampling)? Or, would you prefer to try it in the standard size? 

it also depends on the Provider.  My case managers have all tried the product and my Nurse Practitioners have also.  My physicians state they are "too busy".  I would, as I would like to be honest when recommending to patients.  I think it's great to try to get the providers involved by having them try, they would more likely recommend the product.  I would say Glucerna may go over better with healthcare providers ( the meal replacement) because we often miss meals while we are working, having a meal replacement on hand may be a huge benefit.  Abbott should bring some and put in the employee refrigerate/cabinet in the break room.  I think if you can fill a need for providers and patients, then providers would be receptive. I agree with Ashlyn Smith, PA that if the samples are sent to the office, they will most likely go to the patients. Having the rep there in person to specify the samples are for providers to use (and preferably on a day when lunch is not provided) would fill a need for busy providers - which would be a helpful testimonial when recommending it for patients who have the same need.  I think most would at least want to taste it prior to recommending it to patients.  If an office is shipped or given a box of samples, they would most like assume it is for patients only. If there were a meeting with clinicians (eg, a lunch program or a promotional meeting, I always recommend that samples are accessible for clinicians to try! 100% think that helps for clinicians to recommend the product.  My staff and I would be interested but I think for most busy clinicians who are just trying to keep there heads above water, this would be a low priority unless a representative was there. Thanks so much for your comments Ashlyn Smith . If samples of Glucerna and/or Ensure were sent to HCP's  for the sole purpose of them trying the products (not marked as samples for patients), would you or your staff be interested in trying them? This would be outside of a lunch program or promotional meeting I think most would that are interested and passionate about nutrition  Thanks so much for your comments Ashlyn Smith, PA . If samples of Glucerna and/or Ensure were sent to HCP's  for the sole purpose of them trying the products (not marked as samples for patients), would you or your staff be interested in trying them? This would be outside of a lunch program or promotional meeting Answer: No.  Comment: If an office is shipped or given a box of samples, they would most like assume it is for patients only. If there were a meeting with clinicians (eg, a lunch program or a promotional meeting, I always recommend that samples are accessible for clinicians to try! 100% think that helps for clinicians to recommend the product. Thanks so much! My staff and I would be interested but I think for most busy clinicians who are just trying to keep there heads above water, this would be a low priority unless a representative was there.

If I specifically ask them to complete a task they generally do.  If I asked them to fill out the survey and told them I was also filling one out the likelihood would increase.  I know I would comply and fill it out however patients who aren't computer savvy may not be able to.  I do believe that if  a patient really enjoyed the product they would want to thank you by giving their feedback in a survey.

I would fill it out because I know as a healthcare provider how important surveys are to understand the customer perspective.  Please see my previous comment regarding an enticement for completing the survey. That may enhance participation and completion rates.  As a professional and having participated in this process I feel like I am stakeholder and vested in providing feedback.  I don't think a patient is as likely because they don't feel as vested as I would because of participating in this process.  If it is short (&lt;5 questions) and had an online option, that significantly increases the likelihood of responses. For example, they could go to a website or scan a QR code to get the survey.  Some patients are great about giving feedback and others do not  @all is there anything else that you could suggest that would increase the likelihood of a patient completing the survey? The idea of a short survey and incentives are great. Thanks for the comments! 

I prefer obtaining the kit and explaining it to my patient to increase buy in.  This ensures the right person is getting the right product.  This is a difficult question because I believe it should just be deliver to the patient's home.  There is limited capacity in the medical practices to have packages delivered there.  There is a chance for things to get misplaced or lost. I would order the patient kit while they are at their office visit and let them know to expect it.  With time constraints, it would meet a need for a provider to have all the information presented succinctly, with key points and the key pieces (i.e. evidence based research resources) explained so providers don't have to sift through the information. Once providers know what to look for and where to find it, it makes explaining and recommending a product much simpler.....and simple is better:)  Sometimes the only way rep can get time with the providers in our office is to actually come for a lunch.  I think personalizing the addresses is crucial. Once the provider has received the kits I think it would be great to meet with the Rep for any questions. Yes in my office my MA sorts the mail and she would probably automatically unpack it and put it with our samples Mail like this often gets processed and put away without a clinicians direct involvement as it does with samples and pt ed materials. Plus, a direct rep contact putting it into context and answering initial questions significantly increases the likelihood a clinician will remember and use it.  Mailed items sometimes get lost  Yes in my office my MA sorts the mail and she would probably automatically unpack it and put it with our samples Thanks so much for your comments Ashlyn Smith .  @all Do you think it might make a difference if patient kit was mailed, but addressed to a specific clinician? Would that make it more personalized?
Good point about the reps ability to put everything into context/answer questions. What if a letter was included with the reps info encouraging a follow-up call to answer questions or schedule a meeting after the kit was utilized? Thanks so much for your comments Ashlyn Smith, PA .  @all Do you think it might make a difference if patient kit was mailed, but addressed to a specific clinician? Would that make it more personalized?
Good point about the reps ability to put everything into context/answer questions. What if a letter was included with the reps info encouraging a follow-up call to answer questions or schedule a meeting after the kit was utilized? Answer: Delivered in person by a rep.  Comment: Mail like this often gets processed and put away without a clinicians direct involvement as it does with samples and pt ed materials. Plus, a direct rep contact putting it into context and answering initial questions significantly increases the likelihood a clinician will remember and use it. Thanks so much for your reply Maria Lena Walls, NP :) Yes in my office my MA sorts the mail and she would probably automatically unpack it and put it with our samples

Routinely use  patient starter kits for an insulin pens with extra needles and directions for use with a fingerstick log.  None  I have not used any patient starter kits.  Please see my earlier response in the provider section. I mentioned that over the years other companies have included a thermal carrier or travel pouch for their products and I suggested an option for this starter kit. 
Also, a favorite of mine was a slide-rule calculator for Protein/CHO/Fats servings based on daily caloric intake. It was in a gestational DM pamphlet and made it very easy for patients to know how many servings and what to include with each meal. Perhaps something similar with the protein calculator Ashlyn had mentioned.  mostly glucometers, insulin pens with videos etc, glucose logs.  I have just primarily used samples and pt ed materials, but no specific kits. I will just tailor it to what the pt needs (eg pump options, carb counting books, protein examples, etc)  I have never used any kits before 

If you could give people a choice that would be optional.  I prefer electronic.  Paper is more concrete, something everyone is used to.  Electronic surveys are the best for me. Paper is too much to manage.  That depends on the patient population. I have elderly patients who would definitely want paper based, maybe a postage paid tri-fold they can complete, fold, seal and drop in the mail.  I prefer a short electronic survey because I can immediately return it.  See my answer to previous question :) Would recommend electronic for the vast majority of my patients.  Easier if electronic 
Didn't even know this was available but will request copies as this has language regarding tube care which I would like to review with patients upon discharge after placement.  Tom Davis thank you.  Your comments are well received and we can definitely see how the placemat could seem overly complicated.  Do you think a annual/semi-annual meeting with your treatment team members at Vanderbilt dedicated to discussing responsibilities and evolving management topics would be helpful?  Is it something you already do?  Would something like this be helpful for AbbVie to host? We would probably not use it.  It seems over complicated.  Our patients continue to see the doctor they have always seen and contact surgery if they have problems with the tube.  I think the simpler you can make it seem to the patient, the more they view it as "no big deal" and are more likely to try the therapy. Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C Thank you and we agree this resource is more geared towards treatment teams just getting started.  Does your established treatment team at Rush regularly meet to discuss and refine responsibilities and evolving patient management topics? We have not participated in a program using this resource. I think this resource would be useful for a team new to Duopa. We would probably not use it.  It seems over complicated.  Our patients continue to see the doctor they have always seen and contact surgery if they have problems with the tube.  I think the simpler you can make it seem to the patient, the more they view it as "no big deal" and are more likely to try the therapy.  Seems like something we could try to incorporate in the future. Our neuro and GI teams had a meeting several years ago, prior to the development of this placemat resource. Unfortunately we have not had the opportunity to get together with our new treatment team (including new neurologist and proceduralist) due in part to the pandemic. I agree that this may be nice for new partnerships so that not only the physicians know the roles but that the supportive staff know the workflow as well.  Our team happened organically but this a nice resource to have to start conversation about roles and workflow.  We have not participated in a program using this resource. I think this resource would be useful for a team new to Duopa.  At our center we do not regularly meet but we will discuss if an issue arises to prevent it in the future. Jessica Karl Thank you and we agree this resource is more geared towards treatment teams just getting started.  Does your established treatment team at Rush regularly meet to discuss and refine responsibilities and evolving patient management topics? I've never used this placemat, but perhaps it could be useful.  Have not used this resource personally but I believe the Movement Disorder point person does use some segment of this  plan. 
I did notice that everywhere the tube is described at percutaneous endoscopic PEG-J. Being an interventional radiologist performing this procedure, it would be worthwhile also including 'IR Percutaneous pull through Gastro-J'.  I was not aware that this was available, and I have never used it.  It does seem like it would be a helpful resource though!  Our neuro and GI teams had a meeting several years ago, prior to the development of this placemat resource. Unfortunately we have not had the opportunity to get together with our new treatment team (including new neurologist and proceduralist) due in part to the pandemic.  I think we can utilize this format but I think it can be more useful for programs starting up. It doesn't fit our need as an established program  Have not used the placement, but it may be a good starting point for a meeting between all players of a new Duopa team.
I think it is useful to have a team meeting with the different disciplines. We had one or 2 such dinner meetings and there are always issues to discuss. Importantly it also is an opportunity to show appreciation to all involved and renew the engagement of all parties to the therapy. 
              The account executive, DuoConnect Complete, and nurse educator
The Nurse Educator program has been invaluable to me and my practice and rely on them for support and guidance. Ryan Trumpinski has been tremendous and an invaluable resource. My lack of knowledge of some of these programs have been completely supplanted by Carolyn, Avram, and Ryan as well which is the great part about working with such a knowledgeable team. This was very easy to adopt into my practice because these mechanisms were already in place.  The account executive and the website have been most helpful.  @all How can your local Duopa Representative be more helpful?  The nurse ambassador and peer mentor.  The nurse educator is extremely useful for the provider during titration visits. The patients find the nurse ambassador early on in their treatment. We typically use our own patients/care partners as resources for those interested in pursing Duopa.  Duoconnect for both myself and the patients.  Nurse ambassador and Duoconnect most useful  The most helpful resources from my view are the nurse ambassador and the peer mentor program. Since launching the nurse ambassador program my patients seem to have much more familiarity with the Duopa pump when they come in for their titration date. Although we have a number of Duopa patients at NM whom our potential Duopa patients can speak to, I like to use the peer ambassador program to get a better demographic match for potential Duopa patients (i.e., young male patient can speak with another young male, female patient can speak with another female)  where do i start Brad ??? Just kidding. The rep can be doing more community education programs at support groups (when things open up) but also support be allowed to educate patients and family at the visits without limitations based on how many people are there. @all How can your local Duopa Representative be more helpful? Account Exec for me personally but for patients it has to be the nurse ambassador  For patients Duoconnect and nurse ambassador as well as peer mentor are very useful
For me the account executive, nurse educator, have been very helpful 
I think you did a good job of introducing the platform.  It was user friendly and easy to navigate  I thought the 1-hour kick off was adequate.  It was very simple to utilize.  I felt the tutorial was more than sufficient. The alerts on the homepage also allow you to pick right back up where you left off in the conversation which is also helpful.    One of the challenges with busy physicians is ability to stay signed on for a longer period of time at a stretch. 
I faced a terrible problem getting back in because of a technical glitch that took 2 days to resolve. I was surprised that when a password reset is requested , the email link and directions would not show up in your inbox for a very long time , such that I had to make phone calls, talk to multiple people, attempts made by multiple people and finally a resolution to the problem literally ~ 5 hours before closure on a regular working day. Within 3 needs to do a better job at this.  The platform was easy to use. 
Without hesitation  I think that this type of advisory board was easy to participate in.  Nice that there was freedom to work around busy schedules.  I would be happy to participate in advisory board like this again, because it was very easy for me to do. I am more of an active listener than participator in group settings, so I think an online forum provides a better platform for me personally to express my ideas. As I mentioned earlier, I did miss the dialogue aspect of an in person adboard but obviously each environment has its pros and cons.  It was very interesting to see the different types of experiences others have had with the Duopa process. Our office has a very smooth process when it comes to enrolling new patients and if we can help other offices get to this point that would be great.  Of course!  Definitely!  If there is better technical support. Within 3 should take responsibility for their technical limitations in a simple thing like password reset. Shocking!  But I greatly prefer a real-time discussion either in person or over Zoom etc.    


