My answers would not change.  This is a great option for educating the providers who will teach patients about the importance of glycemic control and nutrition.  I think this is a good idea. It would ID those at highest risk. @all thanks so much for your thoughtful comments for this question. For those who commented that they would prefer that patients not be specifically identified by name, would you be amenable to including some sort of patient profile data such as age, medical conditions etc? This type of info may help identify who may be interested or benefit from the product. I think this is very complete.  I love the magnet and use it for other promotions with patients.  We instruct them to put it on the refrigerator to remind them of whatever is noted on the magnet. many people still have trouble with technology and I think we should offer a paper survey option or a phone survey option to folks.  I use tech apps with the over 65 year old population and some do very well but many still struggle.  No  I like the idea and the tools/resources like the magnet.  The coupons are also helpful.  No, all my prior responses would stay the same.  Receiving a nice package with items to try is a nice surprise for anyone.  I think having additional coupons in the kit enables a thankful customer to give coupons to others.  Well, I am not very fond of the magnet idea.  Not sure of where this is suppose to go.  Are we assuming everyone has older refrigerators that will hold magnets.  My parents have had stainless steel for years and we know SS does not hold magnets.  I really think we should incorporate technology with an app to order from, get coupons and notifications for reminders.  Susan 
I agree with Ashlyn's comments.  I also would like to add that I did not want to focus this comment on older individuals.  If we consider that over 85 millions people have pre diabetes that are 45 years and older, people that are over weight, physically inactive, have a relative with diabetes and low HDLs and triglycerides and much more would benefit from this product.  I think the  magnet is focused for the older generation and that is just a small subset of the individuals that would use it.  Most can set reminders on their smartphones. @all Great comment about the magnet and stainless steel refrigerator Lisa Jasper ! Do you think your older patients or others who may not typically embrace apps might be open to the app if it includes coupon, notifications etc? I agree that it's so important not to assume that someone might not embrace something new... even if they haven't used it before. If I was receiving this and reading it for the first time, it seems as though it is just a taste test.
Although the letter is to the point, what is the goal for the provider or patient to incorporate this into their meal plan?
We talked in earlier sessions about the benefits and who would benefit from this the most, but I think it would help to reiterate WHY someone would opt for this product and suggest HOW they can incorporate it and HOW it would benefit by it.
I also agree with Ashlyn Smith, PA that I would rather not share patient names.  This includes items I thought would be helpful for providers: the link, suggested usage etc.
BTW: I went to the site and sure enough: "Join now and save up to $18.*  You'll receive: Recipes and tips; Exclusive coupons; Dietitian support"
I also found the Health Professional page with the tab for resources, so it would be good to include that link on the provider kit (It may already be there, but some of the print is small, so I couldn't be sure)

I like the idea of 'try before you buy' so is it possible to include at least one sample for them to try before purchasing and maybe a coupon for free samples or more coupons after submitting the survey as an enticement for them to complete the survey.  I love this idea! I think you put yourself in the patient's shoes for a week and see what it is like to walk in the patients shoes for a week.  looks great  Overall I really like this idea. Clinicians and patients appreciate a "try it before you buy it opportunity." I would definitely hand these kits out to my patients. I would also like to hear their feedback--I wonder if there is a way to link each kit to a specific provider so we can see the pt feedback too! Obviously it would need to be HIPAA-protected but perhaps there could be a code that would send it back to the clinician like "Your patient said XYZ about the Glucerna trial." 

The only thing I would suggest changing is the "please identify 5 patients who would benefit." It sounds more like a chain letter than a great opportunity for patients. Consider "Enclosed are 5 patient kits to offer to patients you feel would be best served by this product."  Yes I would find that helpful. @all thanks so much for your thoughtful comments for this question. For those who commented that they would prefer that patients not be specifically identified by name, would you be amenable to including some sort of patient profile data such as age, medical conditions etc? This type of info may help identify who may be interested or benefit from the product. Overall this is good, including coupons and visual on the coupon. The message on the magnet is not as intuitive as the graphic on the coupon. Also I would not use a donut, but perhaps a perceived "healthy" option like a muffin or a breakfast sandwich.  I think the majority of invested patients would download an app, especially if there were incentives like coupons/samples. Then they will have access to ideas to help them keep on track, which the clinician and pt both appreciate. Consider a QR code to make getting the app that much easier.

There is a small subset of people who cannot/will not use a smart phone or download another app (I still get a few who say that they would rather buy a Libre reader or G6 receiver than use the apps).

If you want to try to capture every patient with different tech abilities/preferences, consider:
-Physical coupons/magnet
-App
-Website link
-Option to receive text notifications/offers 
-Customer service number 
*If all else fails, solicit help from a tech savvy grandchild or or niece/nephew by including on the pt kit verbiage like "You or a loved one can sign up on XYZ to receive exclusive coupons and tips." @all Great comment about the magnet and stainless steel refrigerator Lisa Jasper ! Do you think your older patients or others who may not typically embrace apps might be open to the app if it includes coupon, notifications etc? I agree that it's so important not to assume that someone might not embrace something new... even if they haven't used it before. I like this idea as well and agree with Ashlyn.  I wouldn't want to identify any patients.  I think this is good.  I like the magnet idea as a frequent reminder  @all thanks so much for your thoughtful comments for this question. For those who commented that they would prefer that patients not be specifically identified by name, would you be amenable to including some sort of patient profile data such as age, medical conditions etc? This type of info may help identify who may be interested or benefit from the product.  Thanks so much Overall I really like this idea. Clinicians and patients appreciate a "try it before you buy it opportunity." I would definitely hand these kits out to my patients. I would also like to hear their feedback--I wonder if there is a way to link each kit to a specific provider so we can see the pt feedback too! Obviously it would need to be HIPAA-protected but perhaps there could be a code that would send it back to the clinician like "Your patient said XYZ about the Glucerna trial." 

The only thing I would suggest changing is the "please identify 5 patients who would benefit." It sounds more like a chain letter than a great opportunity for patients. Consider "Enclosed are 5 patient kits to offer to patients you feel would be best served by this product." Ashlyn Smith, PA great comment on the "perceived healthy option"..... as most people "know" that a doughnut isn't healthy, but cake-like muffin may be thought of as a nutritious option. Thanks for the suggestion! Overall this is good, including coupons and visual on the coupon. The message on the magnet is not as intuitive as the graphic on the coupon. Also I would not use a donut, but perhaps a perceived "healthy" option like a muffin or a breakfast sandwich. @all Great comment about the magnet and stainless steel refrigerator Lisa Jasper, RN, DNP, MSN, FNP, MBA ! Do you think your older patients or others who may not typically embrace apps might be open to the app if it includes coupon, notifications etc? I agree that it's so important not to assume that someone might not embrace something new... even if they haven't used it before. Well, I am not very fond of the magnet idea.  Not sure of where this is suppose to go.  Are we assuming everyone has older refrigerators that will hold magnets.  My parents have had stainless steel for years and we know SS does not hold magnets.  I really think we should incorporate technology with an app to order from, get coupons and notifications for reminders. Thanks for your thoughtful comments Holly Jodon, MPAS, PA-C . Great idea to make sure that the link is easily seen and accessible on the site! This includes items I thought would be helpful for providers: the link, suggested usage etc.
BTW: I went to the site and sure enough: "Join now and save up to $18.*  You'll receive: Recipes and tips; Exclusive coupons; Dietitian support"
I also found the Health Professional page with the tab for resources, so it would be good to include that link on the provider kit (It may already be there, but some of the print is small, so I couldn't be sure)

I like the idea of 'try before you buy' so is it possible to include at least one sample for them to try before purchasing and maybe a coupon for free samples or more coupons after submitting the survey as an enticement for them to complete the survey. Thanks so much for your thoughtful reply! I think the majority of invested patients would download an app, especially if there were incentives like coupons/samples. Then they will have access to ideas to help them keep on track, which the clinician and pt both appreciate. Consider a QR code to make getting the app that much easier.

There is a small subset of people who cannot/will not use a smart phone or download another app (I still get a few who say that they would rather buy a Libre reader or G6 receiver than use the apps).

If you want to try to capture every patient with different tech abilities/preferences, consider:
-Physical coupons/magnet
-App
-Website link
-Option to receive text notifications/offers 
-Customer service number 
*If all else fails, solicit help from a tech savvy grandchild or or niece/nephew by including on the pt kit verbiage like "You or a loved one can sign up on XYZ to receive exclusive coupons and tips." Lisa,
Thanks so much for your thoughtful reply. Much appreciated! Susan 
I agree with Ashlyn's comments.  I also would like to add that I did not want to focus this comment on older individuals.  If we consider that over 85 millions people have pre diabetes that are 45 years and older, people that are over weight, physically inactive, have a relative with diabetes and low HDLs and triglycerides and much more would benefit from this product.  I think the  magnet is focused for the older generation and that is just a small subset of the individuals that would use it.  Most can set reminders on their smartphones.

I'm sure this is already being done, but if each patient  is mandatorily assigned a Nurse Educator, that would be tremendous. I have seen patients that felt "over-confident" in their abilities since they have had tubes before and then ultimately fail to seek help until there are large issues because they tried to inappropriately manipulate the connectors. Not sure if that will entirely fix the issue, but at least would provide more of an "opt out" scenario as opposed to "opt-in" for support.  Maybe providing semi-annual to annual updates regarding the medication or company changes along with any patient specific handouts they would like us to distribute to patients during those points of contact in clinic or after their procedures. @all How can your local Account executive / representative be more helpful? I do not have any further suggestions.  None  pretty satisfied as well.  But update on changes from the company side would be helpful like Harold Boutte, Jr, MD mentioned @all How can your local Account executive / representative be more helpful? I am very happy!  No suggestions.  I believe podcasts targeted to potential Parkinson's patients AFTER their physicians have initiated the conversation regarding Duopa Gel Treatment with a dedicated GJ tube may help facilitate better understanding. Also providing periodic updates would be worthwhile. Having coordinated zoom conferences on line may also be a consideration, basically a platform for patients and families to ask questions to a panel.  I think this is a regulatory thing, but it would be helpful if nurse ambassadors could communicate with the patient's treatment team directly. Currently I think the nurse ambassador has to speak with Duoconnect, who then has to relay the issue to me (correct me if I'm wrong). I feel like this makes communication feel less familiar and more disjointed. I imagine patients would be more satisfied if there could be more open lines of communication.  I do think having younger patients with Duopa need to be involved with any marketing such as their success stories. Abbvie needs to show that dyskinesias can be better controlled with Duopa. There has been post marketing data about this.  @all How can your local Account executive / representative be more helpful?  Satisfied  I think our account executive is helpful and responsive @all How can your local Account executive / representative be more helpful? This is an interesting point. In general younger patients tend to be 'automatically' directed towards DBS and the question is if that in the end is always the best strategy. For instance, young patients who are fluctuators, but don't have significant dyskinesias or LD resistant tremor, and who are on not on very high daily doses of LD could be good candidates for infusion therapies as well. So showing that possibility may change the image of Duopa as a therapy for only those who are no good candidates for DBS. I do think having younger patients with Duopa need to be involved with any marketing such as their success stories. Abbvie needs to show that dyskinesias can be better controlled with Duopa. There has been post marketing data about this.

I'd agree with 30-40% of patients not enrolling. The primary concerns being the fear about managing the tube itself or the tube becoming dislodged or clogged. We have established a process where our patients here at NMH can reach out to us 24/7 with tube related issues and can get an appointment in clinic within 24-48 hours to help troubleshoot the tube or arrange tube replacement endoscopically within a week as an outpatient as long as there is not another reason for admission.  I can personally attest to the degree of attention that Carolyn Taylor and Avram Fraint contribute to this patient population, and have seen more patients signing up for these tubes now with their care protocol and attention to detail as well. Absolutely we recommend all patients considering Duopa speak with a current Duopa patient, and sometimes even recommend the care partner speak to another care partner. Fear of the tube getting dislodged due to loved ones becoming confused at night and pulling out the tube or getting caught on as doors, etc. Also agree with the dexterity being an issue they are concerned with in order to work the pump or troubleshoot it when it alarms. The patient support program has been helpful with mitigating these fears and also we try our best to take the "guess work" out of troubleshooting the tube at home and have the families call or page afterhours to  help with tube related issues. The added support gives them piece of mind, but there are still some that have those remaining fears. Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis I think about 20% of ours never start treatment.  They are all taking L-DOPA and have a good response so it is not the drug,   If they decide against it is is because they don't want to deal with the pump / tube. Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Given that Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC thinks that nearly half of our patients enrolled never start treatment, I suspect this is also the case at other centers.  We also I only recommend it with certain patients who are hesitant or have questions about living with the tube itself. Douglas Varian we have certain patients with the Duopa reach out to patients who are interested in speaking with someone who has already undergone the procedure. We tend to not utilize the mentor line. 30-40%  1) Permanent tubing/patient fear, 2) lack of a care partner Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Maybe about half of patient. We have a lot of patients who sign the consent, but never follow through.  Douglas Varian we have certain patients with the Duopa reach out to patients who are interested in speaking with someone who has already undergone the procedure. We tend to not utilize the mentor line. Great insights Leonard Verhagen Do you suggest to all potential Duopa patients to talk with other Duopa patients via the Duopa mentor line or only certain patients/caregivers that may be hesitant?  I would be curious if others reinforce speaking with other Duopa patients as well, and what their process is in facilitating this conversation @all ~20%. I agree that the reason is lack of adequate family support, and also going through a procedure.  I think lack of family and close support systems is one of the big reasons why patients don't get to this treatment. I also think that when DBS teams are aggressive in marketing and doing procedures, you will see a shift towards the DBS spectrum.  I think there could be some marketing strategies that could be deployed by Abbvie as a corporate entity to help patients and their families understand duopa.  Not sure, since I never see patietns who change their mind about enrolling after they see Tom Davis (or one of our other neurologists) but before seeing me or my NPs.  I would guess similar to my own experience, 40-50%?  The #1 reason in my experience is lack of social/familial support. Secondarily many patients don't proceed due to fears about having a procedure. Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Absolutely we recommend all patients considering Duopa speak with a current Duopa patient, and sometimes even recommend the care partner speak to another care partner. Great insights Leonard Verhagen Do you suggest to all potential Duopa patients to talk with other Duopa patients via the Duopa mentor line or only certain patients/caregivers that may be hesitant?  I would be curious if others reinforce speaking with other Duopa patients as well, and what their process is in facilitating this conversation @all Since we have a robust group of patients having had the procedure, I ask my Duopa patients, if they are comfortable to share their experience with prospective patients that may have interest.   . Nothing is better for a patient to go over how the process goes with their intended surgeon and MDS. Getting experience from another patient from a different center doesn't do justice for explaining what our patient may go through. Great insights Leonard Verhagen Do you suggest to all potential Duopa patients to talk with other Duopa patients via the Duopa mentor line or only certain patients/caregivers that may be hesitant?  I would be curious if others reinforce speaking with other Duopa patients as well, and what their process is in facilitating this conversation @all Is there one or two reasons that come to mind for why patients don't start therapy?  Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC Tom Davis  Great insights Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD Do you suggest to all potential Duopa patients to talk with other Duopa patients via the Duopa mentor line or only certain patients/caregivers that may be hesitant?  I would be curious if others reinforce speaking with other Duopa patients as well, and what their process is in facilitating this conversation @all Probably 40%. 
We all will have had experience with going through the process of educating the patient, providing literature, information, filling out forms, and communicating with colleagues, only to find out that the patient in the end decides not to go through with it. As a result we have become more insightful into whether a patient is serious about wanting this therapy or not. 
Centers with less experience do not have that same learning experience and may be guided by their enthusiasm and start the process even if patients are not 100% on board. 100% agree with Jessica Karl and others who mention lack of care partners as a main problem. And sometimes IF patient have a care partner, it is that care partner who does not feel he/she can deal with the technology, who will pull the plug. Hearing form other patients is often very helpful for patients who are in doubt. Probably 40%. 
We all will have had experience with going through the process of educating the patient, providing literature, information, filling out forms, and communicating with colleagues, only to find out that the patient in the end decides not to go through with it. As a result we have become more insightful into whether a patient is serious about wanting this therapy or not. 
Centers with less experience do not have that same learning experience and may be guided by their enthusiasm and start the process even if patients are not 100% on board. 100% agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and others who mention lack of care partners as a main problem. And sometimes IF patient have a care partner, it is that care partner who does not feel he/she can deal with the technology, who will pull the plug. Hearing form other patients is often very helpful for patients who are in doubt. 

Roughly 30-60 days based on patient's willingness and scheduling for the procedure/admission. Oour patient's are hospitalized overnight after the procedure for monitoring which also adds to the patient coordination as well. This has also been challenging during COVID given fear of hospitalization/exposure vs hospital bed availability for "elective" procedures.  I would estimate 2-3 months.  Still,  much quicker than DBS. I would estimate 2-3 months. I would guess that it varies similarly to what we see at Northwestern - anywhere from 30 days to 6 months.  I would say at centers that regularly prescribe Duopa 1-3 months. At centers that do not regularly prescribe much longer, 3-6 months.  From the time we get "cleared to ship"? It can take about 4-6 weeks, but that depends on the GI's availability.  To clarify, when you say 'Clearance of a Duopa Script' does that mean that the preauthorization process is complete in writing? 
If that is the case, if yes , then around  ~ 4 weeks.  Really not sure on this one.  Assuming other practices face the same challenges with patient readiness that I do, I would guess at least several months.  Brad Durbin Douglas Varian Kendall Cook Eric Lynch  Can you Clarify "Looking at data across the US.." Is there some data I'm missing you have to share or other information for us to analyze? 

I agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C that there is a bias between centers with regularity of doing Duopa procedures vs those not as frequent. I think 30-45 days is what we see in our region.  Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. Good question, you are not missing any data.  The question implies if you are looking at the data across the country, what would be your estimate for this time frame.  Has your time frame stayed fairly steady over the years or increased/decreased? Brad Durbin Douglas Varian Kendall Cook Eric Lynch  Can you Clarify "Looking at data across the US.." Is there some data I'm missing you have to share or other information for us to analyze? 

I agree with Jessica Karl that there is a bias between centers with regularity of doing Duopa procedures vs those not as frequent. I think 30-45 days is what we see in our region. I guess the point of the question is for us to guess what the average time is WITHOUT looking at the dat?
In that case I agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and oether that the average will be a bit longer for non-experienced centers, up to 6 months. 

Given my background in internal medicine and specifically GI, I feel comfortable fielding the questions regarding movement disorders and their effect on GI motility as well as describing medication absorption through the jejunum as well from a drug kinetic perspective.

What would be VERY helpful is an overview of the pump itself and the programming so I can be more knowledgeable about how the run times, boluses and alarms to help with trouble shooting. These questions are invariably deferred to Carolyn Taylor and Avram Fraint, however I still  receive these questions from patients regardless. Caitlin Houghton Sanjiv Parikh Sandeep Thakkar Richard A Pierce Harold Boutte, Jr These are great insights, thank you Dr. Houghton.  Often times for new surgeons placing the tubing, they don't have as much awareness of the disease / therapy when starting placing the tubing.  In your experience and opinion, would it be helpful for proceduralists to have more education of the disease / therapy from the beginning to assist in those conversations with the patient?  I certainly know the neurologists are having these conversations, but it seems patients ask each physician about the therapy etc. Thanks to both Avram and Carolyn, when they see me they are more than well informed regarding Duopa, and typically have specific questions about the tube itself (i.e. How it's placed, recovery time, day-to-day care, need for replacement, etc.). These are very common question that I field when placing tubes in general so as a provider it keeps me within my sphere of expertise without having to over extend myself by answering questions I'm not comfortable with. Caitlin Houghton Sanjiv Parikh Richard A Pierce Harold Boutte, Jr - Do patients ask you specific questions geared towards Duopa &amp; Parkinson's disease? I was trained by Dr. Adam Stein, who previously placed the majority of Duopa tubes here at NMH and I took over as the lead for placing these tubes this past year.  I treat patients with Parkinson's disease.  If you do that, you should be proficient in the therapies for PD.  Duopa is a therapy for PD, so I am involved.  Caitlin Houghton, MD Sanjiv Parikh, MD, DRM Richard A Pierce, MD, PhD Harold Boutte, Jr, MD - Do patients ask you specific questions geared towards Duopa &amp; Parkinson's disease? Dr. Thakkar approached me to see if I would help with tube placement in 2017 and we have been working together ever since. During my fellowship training at Rush I focused and was trained on DBS. At Rush, similar to my current position at Northwestern, the DBS team was also responsible for all infusion based therapies, and so this was included as part of my training as well. When I arrived at Northwestern I soon took over the advanced therapeutics program along with Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC which covers essentially all interventional therapies for PD.  Dr. Thakkar approached me to see if I would help with tube placement in 2017 and we have been working together ever since.  They do, But I always start the consultation by saying that Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. and I work closely together to get them the best treatment possible.  That his role is to decide if they are a good candidate for the medication administered by this route and my role is to make sure the tube is placed safely.  This tends to defer most of the Parkinson's related questions back to his office.  They tend to ask if this will help their symptoms and have I seen improvement in patients.  I tend to answer that question by saying yes I do believe it significantly helps patients.  I don't get to see the full effects but I do know that very few patients take the tube out electively and patients who have an issue with the tube and need replacement are eager to get back to the infusion. Caitlin Houghton Sanjiv Parikh Richard A Pierce Harold Boutte, Jr - Do patients ask you specific questions geared towards Duopa &amp; Parkinson's disease? Usually hesitancy is due to unfamiliarity.  On the proceduralist side, it is important that my nursing staff feel comfortable with the tube and its parts in order to answer patient concerns or to help troubleshoot issues.  I have made sure my nurses know how to replace the parts on the outer tube and know common issues that can occur... tube leaks especially if the tube is over 2 years old...Disconnection of the J-tube from the y connector.  This allows them to feel they have the expertise to be a valuable member. Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Avram Fraint Honestly I probably could use a quick overview of the basics so that I am somewhat knowledgeable.  Maybe that would be a good addition to our next dinner meeting! Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. can give a brief presentation on Parkinson's and the reasons why patients are good candidates and I can give a short presentation on the procedure itself so all team members have a baseline knowledge of both components. Caitlin Houghton Sanjiv Parikh Sandeep Thakkar Richard A Pierce Harold Boutte, Jr These are great insights, thank you Dr. Houghton.  Often times for new surgeons placing the tubing, they don't have as much awareness of the disease / therapy when starting placing the tubing.  In your experience and opinion, would it be helpful for proceduralists to have more education of the disease / therapy from the beginning to assist in those conversations with the patient?  I certainly know the neurologists are having these conversations, but it seems patients ask each physician about the therapy etc. Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. Yes you are always invited! Caitlin Houghton sounds like that would be great for our next meeting to have a discussion of these points. Maybe i can actually attend the procedure to get a perspective from start to finish. I have been directly involved in the interventional program at Rush University for 7 years. It was only natural to include Duopa as one of the treatment options I would offer to patients with advanced PD.  As long as the members of the team have clear roles and there is good communication between teams (neurology and GI) managing Duopa patients is not a burden. We have many patients who have been on this therapy for many years who have been stable. The support from Abbvie is also excellent! Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Avram Fraint I was hired for the surgical intervention team at Rush.  I was approached directly by our our Movement disorder physician and I readily agreed as I recognized very quickly that this would help the patient. Moreover, we had participated with our GI team before in the Freka Tube Trial. We did have significant challenges with combined scheduling and moreover, some technical issues leading to the coaxial jejunostomy tube being pulled back and coiled in the stomach, because of the 'Angle of entry' of the percutaneous G tube tract. The patients were coming back for J tube repositioning. But after IR has taken over with both placement of the Pull through G tube and the coaxial tube, we have had no problems. This has also made scheduling very easy.  It also helped to see some remarkable results early on in the Freka Tube Trial.  As per my previous answer, I was approached directly by the movement disorder team to assist with placing the tubes.  Actually, technically, a colleague of mine was approached, but he was already spread to thin to take on the additional clinical volume, so he passed along to me.  I am certainly quite thankful for this as it has become a very nice niche practice for me.  I was specifically hired to help with care of patients in our advanced therapeutics program (DBS and Duopa)  I think Duopa outcomes speak for themselves. Seeing a patient before and after Duopa is a good way to get buy-in from team members about the significant quality of life improvement that is possible with Duopa. Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Avram Fraint Caitlin Houghton, MD sounds like that would be great for our next meeting to have a discussion of these points. Maybe i can actually attend the procedure to get a perspective from start to finish. Honestly I probably could use a quick overview of the basics so that I am somewhat knowledgeable.  Maybe that would be a good addition to our next dinner meeting! Sandeep Thakkar can give a brief presentation on Parkinson's and the reasons why patients are good candidates and I can give a short presentation on the procedure itself so all team members have a baseline knowledge of both components. I would say my involvement began with the FDA approval of Duopa. As a movement specialist this was an expected requirement to offer this to patients. There was a lot of time required to get trained and be informed but completely worth it based on outcomes  Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton, MD Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC Tom Davis Avram Fraint, MD, MS  Caitlin Houghton, MD Sanjiv Parikh, MD, DRM Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. Richard A Pierce, MD, PhD Harold Boutte, Jr, MD These are great insights, thank you Dr. Houghton.  Often times for new surgeons placing the tubing, they don't have as much awareness of the disease / therapy when starting placing the tubing.  In your experience and opinion, would it be helpful for proceduralists to have more education of the disease / therapy from the beginning to assist in those conversations with the patient?  I certainly know the neurologists are having these conversations, but it seems patients ask each physician about the therapy etc. They do, But I always start the consultation by saying that Sandeep Thakkar and I work closely together to get them the best treatment possible.  That his role is to decide if they are a good candidate for the medication administered by this route and my role is to make sure the tube is placed safely.  This tends to defer most of the Parkinson's related questions back to his office.  They tend to ask if this will help their symptoms and have I seen improvement in patients.  I tend to answer that question by saying yes I do believe it significantly helps patients.  I don't get to see the full effects but I do know that very few patients take the tube out electively and patients who have an issue with the tube and need replacement are eager to get back to the infusion. Tom Davis and I both come from a training program where 'continuous dopaminergic stimulation' was touted as a therapy decades before Duopa came out, so this therapy was something we had been waiting for. We did the pivotal study and then just moved on to the commercial therapy.  I would say 'live a little'. I bet in most places these teams are the most fun to work with! Anything you would say to a potential treatment team member who might be hesitant about being part of the Duopa team?  Caitlin Houghton Jessica Karl Carolyn Taylor Tom Davis Avram Fraint

From a GI perspective, we have an advanced team here that helps place/manage tubes and this was a tube type that we were able to adopt into our program thanks to the support from Neurology and also the Abbvie Nurse Educators who helped further train us as providers and help with our patients knowledge base as well.  The most important aspect of getting started is having a surgical partner who has a real interest in the program.   We are very fortunate at Vanderbilt to have excellent surgical support so the challenges of the tube for neurology are very minimal.  Outside problems with the tube, Duopa is very simple. All movement disorders neurologist should be experts in adjusting L-DOPA so all there is to learn about Duopa is the pump and that is why there are "cheat sheets".  Dayanna Ocegueda Carolyn Taylor, RN, MSN, AGPCNP-BC Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD Avram Fraint, MD, MS Tom Davis What is the process when you need to fill or backfill a role?  Who will get that individual up to speed with the Duopa process?  When I arrived at Northwestern there was a process already in place. Since I took over the advanced therapeutics program we have continued the same workflow.  Sandeep Thakkar, D.O. is the one who identified the initial need in our area for Duopa for Parkinson's patients. Once I was brought on board, our nurse leads did a lot of the work to establish the work flow.  They talk frequently to each other to ensure the process is smooth.  In addition the neuro nurse manager has my direct contact to quickly make me aware of any tube issues that may come up after insertion.  At Rush University Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD started/drove the process. He was involved in the clinical trial. Once the process was started our entire team (Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD , Dayanna Ocegueda, myself, GI team) worked together to perfect the process.  I agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD. At this point I feel our numbers are pretty well represented. We have a good process in place to keep things running smooth. Everyone does their role well.  I provide the training and I ask for help from the DuoConnect nurse. Dayanna Ocegueda Carolyn Taylor Jessica Karl Leonard Verhagen Avram Fraint Tom Davis What is the process when you need to fill or backfill a role?  Who will get that individual up to speed with the Duopa process? This was initiated by our Movement disorder team and once they talked to me , I felt that this was a very worthy procedure for helping patients with refractory Parkinson's. We had a meeting followed by discussion of the logistics and then we got inserviced on the tube and also got connected with Abbvie Rep and clinical support. Now we are on our own doing procedures without anybody's support from Abbvie, Inc.  I believe that the initial development was champion by Tom Davis.  I was asked by their group to join as the proceduralist, and we all had a day-long meeting and training session at a local hotel back in 2015, I think.  Adding in our surgical nurse practitioners was a fairly natural transition, and they really are the glue that holds my practice together.  I was also lucky enough to identify a first, and then a second, interventional radiologist who have had family members with Parkinson's disease and have been very invested in helping me with repositioning J-tubes under fluoroscopy, as long as the G-tube is intact.  The NPs in neurology, surgery, and interventional radiology do a lot of the initial communications as they tend to be a bit more available on a daily basis, and it really helps keep the whole system flowing nicely.  Our previous physician overseeing the advanced therapeutics program at Northwestern helped develop the workflow - based on a similar workflow model in our DBS program.  On the neuro side I provide the training, and I have also utilized our Abbvie rep to help with education about Duopa and the process in general Dayanna Ocegueda Carolyn Taylor Jessica Karl Leonard Verhagen Avram Fraint Tom Davis What is the process when you need to fill or backfill a role?  Who will get that individual up to speed with the Duopa process? We had a need for advanced therapies for our patients. Abbvie reps helped foster such relationships between my group and surgeons. I can say our team was fortunate being in private practice to partner closely with GI surgeons and interventional radiologists who were willing to be available for this specific patient population.  @jessica is correct, as usual. I was site PI for the pivotal study and from there transitioned to commercial use. The crucial step was to find a GI specialist interested in collaborating and we found him relatively quickly. He has been the only one performing tube placements and his team is responsive to our requests and our patients. For example, patients can send them a picture of their tube site if they are concerned about leakage, discoloration etcetera. As Tom Davis mentioned, Duopa is not difficult and if there is a good 'tube partner' the process is smooth. The next big help was Tony, AbbVie's nurse specialist. He coordinated our team form the beginning until we were more or less on autopilot. Finally Dayanna Ocegueda our MA has become the 'mobilizer' who communicates with AbbVie, GI, Neurology and patient. She requires cloning.  Dayanna Ocegueda (mobilizer extraordinaire)  knows the process best and she has left detailed instructions for our nurse for when she is not in the office. And we will lean more on our account executive and Duoconnect when she is out. I provide the training and I ask for help from the DuoConnect nurse.

Also did not know this existed but would be very useful.  I think the resource is a helpful one in the sense that it provides very general information regarding the tube without going into detail about how the tube is placed or who is placing it so as to avoid confusion if it is GI vs Surgery vs IR who is placing the tube and their protocols. If this is meant to be the "Tube Guide" then post-tube care and standard language for that which was included on the Placement also need to be provided here as well as the flow sheet for how it works for the patient to see Neurology, get approved, get tube placed, post-tube care, and then resources such as DuoConnect and titration.

This pamphlet has more risks of the procedure and potential complications than actual information on his the tube or pump functions and the steps needed to get there. Harold Boutte, Jr Richard A Pierce Sanjiv Parikh if you are familiar with this piece, how have you used it and is it beneficial?  Do you have any changes that would make this more useful to you and your team? I think it is best if the proceduralist manages the tube and the neurologist manages the medicine.  Neurologist should determine if the patient is a candidate for Duopa and Proceduralist should determine if the patient is a candidate for the tube.  Patient needs to be a candidate for both.  Proceduralist does not need to be discussing expectations of Duopa with the patient only potential complications of the tube and how they might be handled.  Harold Boutte, Jr, MD Richard A Pierce, MD, PhD Sanjiv Parikh, MD, DRM if you are familiar with this piece, how have you used it and is it beneficial?  Do you have any changes that would make this more useful to you and your team?  I have not seen this resource.  I think this is something that is beneficial for the patients especially showing the carrying cases.  I get asked that a lot.  I may give it to the patient but not sure it would be instrumental in my discussion.  I have not seen this resource.  I did not know this existed.  This is terrific, we would love to see all our patients get access to this before we do our consultation.  I was not aware of this resource - curious if our GI team finds it helpful.  Very nice brochure. It can assist as part of the discussion with the GI doc, provide confidence in the procedure, and reinforce what was already discussed by the MDS  Agree with Tom Davis that by the time the patient comes to the proceduralist they should not require any more convincing that Duopa works and why. 
From an information point of view, the brochure does not seem focused. There is a bit of information on why the therapy is good (but not enough to convince anyone) and there is a bit of information on the procedure, but not enough to be very helpful in telling the patient what to expect. 
I would argue that the Nurse Educator plays an important role in the team list and should play a standard role to facilitate Abbvie communication between patient and providers.  At Vanderbilt all of the movement providers inject botulinum toxin, and manage patients on DBS, Duopa, and apomorphine. All patients who are candidates for both Duopa and DBS are offered both therapies.  I think patients are more willing to consider "advanced therapies" if they can keep the provider with whom they have a long term relationship.  NP/PA s in movement disorders and general surgery have been very helpful in managing the urgencies that can occur with advanced therapies.  Everyone on our team is reflected on the resource, though in some situations patients may wish to continue with their initial movement disorders specialist rather than see me exclusively.  I am on the proceduralist side.  Once we get a consult for Duopa PEG-J.  My NP and GI lab scheduler are in frequent contact with both our AbbVie rep and the neurologist clinic Nurse Manager to arrange scheduling once medications are approved.  Aside from the members already listed I would also include the Duopa team RN who helps the neurology provider in clinic with the titration process.  I agree with Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C. Our Abbvie nurse educator is part of every titration visit.  In our setting, the Movement Disorder Clinic contacts my IR Clinic scheduler and sends a consult note to substantiate it. 
We then see the patient in the Clinic , where we complete the preprocedure evaluation and clinical exam. We also review any pertinent imaging and if need be request more imaging to ensure 'safe window' for the procedure. We only see patients in the clinic who have preauthorization for Duopa Treatment. The patient then gets scheduled usually in a 1 to 2 week time frame with anesthesia in the IR suite. We do our best to accomodate patient and Movement Disorder requests, i.e : we have successfully performed the procedure on a patient seen in the Clinic on a tuesday morning and procedure performed same friday morning.  I will echo Tom Davis and Caitlin Houghton, MD.  I fortunately have 2 excellent nurse practitioners in my surgical clinic who see all of the AbbVie patients.  If the patients are particularly complex in terms of prior abdominal surgery, I will generally see them as well in clinic prior to their tube placement.  However, if they have had minimal or no prior abdominal surgery and seem relatively straightforward, the NPs will just put them on my surgical schedule and I will meet the patient on the day of the procedure.

Postoperatively, the NPs also play an important role, as patients that have tube malfunctions will first come to the clinic to be evaluated by them.  They have all the necessary hardware in clinic so that they can replace connectors and reinsert J tubes that have pulled out to a small degree.  If the J-tube is pulled out a significant amount, the NPs will order a KUB, and then often refer the patient to our interventional radiologist, if needed.  At Northwestern, all Duopa patients are referred to a particular neurologist (Avram Fraint) to take over their management if they proceed with Duopa. Although Dr. Fraint takes over the care of Duopa patients, the referring movement disorders specialists do continue to be involved in decision making/answering questions about Duopa until the patient actually proceeds with the PEG-J procedure. The patient's established movement disorders specialist can often be critical in the patient's decision to actually move forward with Duopa.  Our neurology clinic runs similar to the treatment team roles. We have not seen the Duopa RN for years, and I think that is a shame that there is not additional services at certain centers. Patients require such a standardization.  This is interesting, thanks for the comment Tom Davis .  Regarding your comment about patients being more willing to consider "advanced therapies" if they can keep their provider.  Would you think patients that are referred from a General Neuro to a MDS are more reluctant to start an advanced therapy as they may not be as easily managed by their GN or provider they have a long term relationship with?  Would they be more comfortable if they knew that they were simply going to the movement disorder center to have the therapy completed and then return to their long standing physician? At Vanderbilt all of the movement providers inject botulinum toxin, and manage patients on DBS, Duopa, and apomorphine. All patients who are candidates for both Duopa and DBS are offered both therapies.  I think patients are more willing to consider "advanced therapies" if they can keep the provider with whom they have a long term relationship.  NP/PA s in movement disorders and general surgery have been very helpful in managing the urgencies that can occur with advanced therapies. During in-clinic titration I like to have the AbbVie nurse educator be part of the team.
At Rush, we have a different model than the one described by Tom Davis. Within our movement disorder practice patients are referred for Duopa mostly to Jessica Karl, PhD, PA-C and me. After they are stabilized they often stay with us, but some like the option of going back to their original provider and come and see us when there is a specific infusion issue. Some alternate visits between us and the original person. 
The Neuro Team has been great about providing these resources. Personally I would like to request these handouts for my clinical practice so I can review the Tube Care instructions with the patient as we have been giving them our own standard language for tube care, but would be helpful to provide a clear and unified message with the Abbvie materials they are given.  Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD thank you for this suggestion!  Please expand a little bit more on your this idea.  Are you thinking of something simple (a 1-pager or small card) you could hand out to patients?  Or something simple that you have for your team to reference at the office? Answer: Yes.  Comment: It would be good to have this slide in the office with the appropriate telephone numbers and websites Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD very helpful.  thank you! I was more thinking about a quick reference for office staff. As more people are getting involved with our expanding program, it would be good for everyone to have immediate access to the right person. @all please see Leonard Verhagen, MD, PhD comments in this section in reference to a resource guide he would like for his staff (with much of the info shared on the attached slide) as they expand.  Would anyone else find something like this useful and does anyone else have any additional commentary?  We are aware.  Vaguely.  I do know about the nursing teams and patient support but don't know the details of how they work and how the patient's are contacted/made aware of these resources.  I agree this would be nice.  A brief description of the information available with that resource and the contact info/ website link would be helpful. 

I kind of like the idea of a patient directed card as well if these are resources they can initiate on their own. I was more thinking about a quick reference for office staff. As more people are getting involved with our expanding program, it would be good for everyone to have immediate access to the right person. I find these resources extremely useful.  I utilize some of the resources.  But not have used this routinely, however, the script is followed by the coordinating nurse.  Yes, I am aware of these resources and use them frequently.  I agree that would be a helpful resource, particularly for office staff who help make referrals for Duopa but may not be directly involved in the process.
Something similar for patients would also be useful (I think there may be some iteration of a resource Guide in their daily duopa book once they've already have the procedure done) @all please see Leonard Verhagen comments in this section in reference to a resource guide he would like for his staff (with much of the info shared on the attached slide) as they expand.  Would anyone else find something like this useful and does anyone else have any additional commentary? We have been aware of these resources. I think its good to have as training for those new to the group or a center that is beginning a Duopa program  It would be good to have this slide in the office with the appropriate telephone numbers and websites  I was more thinking about a quick reference for office staff. As more people are getting involved with our expanding program, it would be good for everyone to have immediate access to the right person. Leonard Verhagen thank you for this suggestion!  Please expand a little bit more on your this idea.  Are you thinking of something simple (a 1-pager or small card) you could hand out to patients?  Or something simple that you have for your team to reference at the office?

I think this platform is a great alternative to in-person meetings during the pandemic. It is easy to use and understand.  Overall I think the platform works.  I liked that I could fit it in when my schedule allowed.  

I think that there should be a free forum for physicians to start a discussion on a specific issue or ask a specific question related to process that others on the board could help with.  I think the platform was very easy to use and it was convenient to be able to log on whenever rather than having to set aside a full or half day to participate in the advisory board. However, when I logged on I tended to chug through the questions, and since I was one of the first to answer many of the questions, I definitely missed the dialogue aspect of an in person advisory board.

Also, the email notifications were excessive, I would get about 10 per day :)  Super easy to use. The questions were straight forward. It was very simple to reply to others or to "tag" them in your comments. It was not at all time consuming.  Very helpful and also very insightful. I have learned a great deal from my colleagues and as always from our partners at AbbVie. More importantly I was able to incorporate logging into this platform without having to clear or adjust my schedule to make it for an in-person experience. I also feel that the conversations that are sometimes cut short due to time constraints were able to happen more fluidly without potential interruptions.  I enjoyed using this platform. I felt navigating the platform was easy and intuitive. I also thought it was nice that everyone had a chance to give their opinion.  Like  Dr Thakkar , I also believe that there are younger patients who would benefit from this therapy compared to DBS.  Good, but access was a challenge after password reset did not work for 2 days  The website is easy to use.  Some of the questions seemed redundant. 